




The American Red Cross Bulletin (Vol. IV, No. 2)




                 VOL. IV.       APRIL, 1909.      No. 2.

                                 AMERICAN
                                RED CROSS
                                 BULLETIN

                          NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
                              WASHINGTON D C

          Yearly Subscription, 50 cents. Single Copy, 15 cents.
                           (Issued Quarterly.)




=ADVANCED SPECIALTIES FOR SICKROOM AND HOSPITAL.=

“MEINECKE”

TRADE MARK

SIMPLEX SANITARY PAPER SPUTUM CUP


With Hinged Cardboard Cover which Closes Automatically

A NEW CUP AND COVER TO BE USED DAILY AND TO BE BURNED WITH CONTENTS

PATENTED OCT. 29, ’07

[Illustration: PAPER CUP

CUP IN HOLDER WITH COVER RAISED

WIRE HOLDER]

The “SIMPLEX” Is the Most Practical and Best Paper Sputum Cup on the
Market

SIX REASONS WHY

1.—It is already folded into shape for immediate use.

2.—Each Cup has a cardboard cover, attached with a paper hinge, and both
Cup and cover are burned after being in use a day.

3.—The cover is easily and quickly raised, and closes automatically.

4.—The Cup having no flanges, allows free entrance of sputum.

5.—It is made of heavy manila, waterproof paper, which, being light in
color, facilitates ready examination of the sputum.

6.—It has a neat wire holder, which is easily kept clean.

RETAIL PRICES

NO. 1 PACKAGE 10 paper Cups, with covers and one Wire Holder, 25c PER
PACKAGE

NO. 2 PACKAGE 10 paper Cups, with covers, but without the Holder, 20c PER
PACKAGE

Some prefer to use a new Holder with every ten Cups, but one Holder will
do for a hundred or more.

PRICE OF HOLDER, IF SOLD SEPARATELY, 10c. EACH

_Special Prices Made to Hospitals and Sanatoriums_

Sent by Mail, Prepaid, upon Receipt of Price.

                           =MEINECKE & COMPANY
                        48-50 Park Place New York=




THE AMERICAN RED CROSS


Officers

    _President_,
    HON. WILLIAM H. TAFT.

    _Vice-President_,
    ROBERT W. DE FOREST.

    _Treasurer_,
    HON. CHAS. D. NORTON.

    _Counselor_,
    HON. LLOYD W. BOWERS.

    _Secretary_,
    CHARLES L. MAGEE.

    _Chairman of Central Committee_,
    MAJOR-GENERAL GEO. W. DAVIS, U. S. A. (Ret.)

    _National Director_,
    ERNEST P. BICKNELL.

Board of Consultation

    BRIGADIER-GENERAL GEORGE H. TORNEY,
    Surgeon-General, U. S. Army.

    REAR ADMIRAL PRESLEY M. RIXEY,
    Surgeon-General, U. S. Navy.

    SURGEON-GENERAL WALTER WYMAN,
    U. S. Public Health and Marine Hospital Service.

Central Committee 1908-1909

    Major-General GEORGE W. DAVIS, U. S. A. (ret.), _Chairman_.

    Brigadier-General GEORGE H. TORNEY, Surgeon-General, U. S.
    Army, War Department, Washington, D. C.

    Hon. HUNTINGTON WILSON, Assistant Secretary of State,
    Department of State, Washington, D. C.

    Hon. CHARLES D. NORTON, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, U.
    S. Treasury Dept., Washington, D. C.

    Medical Director JOHN C. WISE, U. S. N., Navy Department,
    Washington, D. C.

    Hon. LLOYD W. BOWERS, Solicitor-General, Department of Justice,
    Washington, D. C.

    President BENJAMIN IDE WHEELER, University of California.

    Mr. JOHN M. GLENN, 105 East 22d street, New York, N. Y.

    Miss MABEL T. BOARDMAN, Washington, D. C.

    Hon. JAMES R. GARFIELD, Secretary of the Interior, Washington,
    D. C.

    Hon. A. C. KAUFMAN, Charleston, S. C.

    Hon. H. KIRKE PORTER, 1600 I street, Washington, D. C.

    Mr. JOHN C. PEGRAM, Providence, R. I.

    General CHARLES BIRD, U. S. A., Wilmington, Del.

    Col. WILLIAM CARY SANGER, Sangerfield, N. Y.

    Judge LAMBERT TREE, 70 La Salle street, Chicago, Ill.

    Hon. JAMES TANNER, Washington, D. C.

    Mr. W. W. FARNAM, New Haven, Conn.

NOTE—Attention is invited to the recent changes in the Officers and
Central Committee members.

The President of the United States has appointed Hon. Huntington Wilson,
Hon. Charles D. Norton, Brigadier General George H. Torney and Hon. Lloyd
W. Bowers members of the Central Committee to represent the Departments
of State, Treasury, War and Justice, respectively. The Executive
Committee has elected Hon. Charles D. Norton Treasurer and Hon. Lloyd W.
Bowers Counselor to fill the vacancies caused by the resignations of the
former Treasurer and Counselor.




[Illustration: CONTENTS]


                                                              PAGE

    Preface                                                      5

    The Sicilian and Calabrian Earthquake                        7

    Contributions to the Italian Red Cross                       9

    The American Red Cross Orphanage                            11

    Houses for Italy                                            16

    Early Days of Relief (illustrated)                          19
        By W. Bayard Cutting, Jr.

    Red Cross Relief Ship _Bayern_ (illustrated)                43
        By Lieut.-Commander Reginald R. Belknap, U. S. A.

    Other Measures of American Red Cross Relief                 58

    Italian Relief Notes (illustrated)                          59

    American Red Cross Receipts by States                       64

    How New York Raised Funds for Italy                         66

    Origin of the Christmas Stamp (illustrated)                 69

    Funds Raised through Sale of Red Cross Christmas Stamps,
      1908 (illustrated)                                        75

    Competition for 1909 Christmas Stamp Design                 82

    South China Flood Relief (illustrated)                      83

    An Inspiration (illustrated)                                89
        By Nellie Olmsted Lincoln.

    The Story of the Red Cross (with Portrait)                  92

    Rules for the Prevention of Railroad Accidents              95

    Notes                                                       96

Entered at the Post Office, Washington, D. C., as second-class matter.

[Illustration: MESSINA—VIEW SHOWING DESTRUCTION ALONG WATER FRONT.

(By courtesy of the New York World.)]

[Illustration: HIS EXCELLENCY, LLOYD C. GRISCOM, AMERICAN AMBASSADOR AT
ROME.]




[Illustration: WILLIAM H. TAFT

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]




PREFACE


The April BULLETIN appears with a new cover, on the front page of which
is a symbolical figure representing the Red Cross—a strong, womanly form,
with arms outstretched over the victims of battle and disaster. What it
means to any community devastated by some terrible calamity, and what
it means to the sick and wounded in time of war to know that a great,
strong, sympathetic organization stands ready and prepared to bring them
instant help, only those who have taken part in active relief work can
fully understand, but everyone can have some realization of the uplift
and encouragements the Red Cross can bring in the terrible days of
suffering and depression that follow disaster.

Something of what our American Red Cross has been able to do in Italy
for the victims of the most terrible catastrophe of modern times is told
in this BULLETIN. We are glad to have been able to give our sympathy
practical form, and let the deeds of our Red Cross prove the solidarity
of international brotherhood.

The report of the Red Cross Christmas Stamp is given in this number,
showing how this little stamp of good cheer has accomplished a very good
and widespread mission.

[Illustration: MISS MABEL T. BOARDMAN

Copyright, Clinedinst, ’08.]

From China has come a report of the relief work, after the flood,
near Canton, last year, with illustrations forwarded by the American
Vice-Consul there.

A report of the Red Cross work at the time of the Inauguration will be
given in the July BULLETIN.

Our people give so liberally when disaster arouses their sympathy,
but may we not hope that the time will soon come when, by gifts and
legacies to its Endowment Fund, our American Red Cross may be possessed
of such a certain income that it can “continue and carry on a system of
national and international relief in time of peace, and apply the same in
mitigating the sufferings caused by pestilence, famine, fire, floods and
other great national calamities, and to devise and carry on measures for
preventing the same.” according to its charter, and have always funds on
hand with which to render first aid when disasters occur, without having
to wait until contributions are received.

The patriotic men and women of other countries have given millions of
dollars in small and large donations and legacies to the permanent funds
of their Red Cross societies. Will not our men and women show an equally
patriotic and humane spirit by doing the same for the American Red Cross?




[Illustration: HON. BEEKMAN WINTHROP

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]




THE SICILIAN AND CALABRIAN EARTHQUAKE


“Messina and Reggio destroyed by an earthquake” flashed over the wires
and appeared in our press the last days of the year. The terrible
news, with its story of the fearful loss of life and property, seemed
too appalling to be true. The world, though stunned by its magnitude,
was yet to learn that no pen could describe the horrors of a disaster
unparalleled in modern history, and that only those who saw the scene
of devastation soon after the catastrophe have any realization of its
terrible results. As for those who lived through the earthquake and
escaped, the mental fear and physical agony they had undergone left their
minds dazed and blank. When some realization of the truth dawned upon
the world a wave of sympathy was awakened everywhere. It is especially
for such times of disaster that the Red Cross has its being, and the
call for help was immediately issued from headquarters at Washington.
The President and Governors of States were notified that our National
Society was ready to receive and transmit the contributions our people
were glad to make for suffering Italy. President Roosevelt, in his cables
to the King of Italy, expressing his own and his countrymen’s sympathy,
stated that the “American Red Cross has issued an appeal for the
sufferers.” Many Governors of States issued proclamations, asking that
all contributions be sent through the American Red Cross. How promptly
and how generously, our people expressed their sympathy in tangible shape
is known everywhere. Glad were we in America to do what we could to help
our suffering fellow-men in beautiful and well-loved Italy. Something
of what the American Red Cross, our national member of that greatest
of all institutions of international brotherhood, has been able to do
with the contributions it has received is told in this BULLETIN by those
who in Italy have helped to administer the funds. In all of this work
the Society has had the most valuable and untiring assistance of Mr.
Lloyd Griscom, the American Ambassador at Rome. It cannot too strongly
express its appreciation of all that he has accomplished in the line of
careful and prompt use of the money it has sent. What our Red Cross has
accomplished has been done with a sincere desire to be of help, with a
deep appreciation of the complex and difficult problem Italy has had and
still has to face, and with the hope that the wounds of this beautiful
country, so recently devastated by this terrible calamity, may soon be
healed and the people re-established in a happy and prosperous life.

[Illustration: MAJ.-GEN. GEORGE W. DAVIS

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]




[Illustration: ERNEST P. BICKNELL

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]




CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ITALIAN RED CROSS


Knowing that the Italian Red Cross was especially well organized for
carrying on hospital relief work, because of its field hospitals,
fourteen hospital trains and equipment for two ships’ hospitals, besides
an active personnel, the American Red Cross transmitted to it through
our Ambassador at Rome $320,000 to be applied to its relief work in the
earthquake district. The Italian Red Cross, in two previous Calabrian
earthquakes and at the time of the Vesuvian eruption, maintained a number
of hospitals and relief stations. At the time of the latter disaster
the American Red Cross received about $12,000, which was transmitted to
the Italian Red Cross. Later a special report was made by this Society
of the relief work it performed at that time. A report of the relief
operations in Southern Italy will doubtless be issued sometime in the
future, but this must not be expected too soon, as experience has taught
how long drawn out is relief work after serious disasters. Baron Mayor
des Planches, the Italian Ambassador at Washington, in speaking of the
Italian Red Cross, said:

[Illustration: CHARLES L. MAGEE.

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]

    “As the representative of the Italian Government, I desire to
    give the strongest indorsement of the Italian Red Cross, with
    which the American Red Cross is in the most intimate relation,
    and to say that my Government places absolute confidence in
    this great national organization.”

On January 4, the following cablegram was received from Count Taverna:

    “The Italian Red Cross tenders sincerest thanks to American Red
    Cross for conspicuous contribution of 1,538,500 Italian lire,
    received through American Ambassador in Rome, toward the relief
    of the distressed districts of Reggio, Calabria and Messina,
    and begs to express its keen appreciation of the feelings of
    solidarity and warm sympathy with the stricken populations,
    which have prompted their generous act.

                       “COUNT TAVERNA, President Italian Red Cross.”

Since this despatch was received further remittances have been made,
bringing the total of the American Red Cross contributions to the Italian
Red Cross up to $320,000.




[Illustration: ROBERT W. DE FOREST]




THE AMERICAN RED CROSS ORPHANAGE


[Illustration: Queen Helena.]

Hundreds of little children were left fatherless and motherless amidst
the ruins of Messina and Calabria. Scores of them were even too young
to be able to give any information in regard to themselves or their
families. For years these must be cared for, and having been left without
property or relatives, must be so educated that, after reaching mature
years, they will be able to support themselves. Helpless childhood
appeals strongly to everyone, and the Red Cross, which after great
calamities aims when the first temporary aid is over, to rehabilitate
and place again upon their feet the victims of the disasters, was ready
to accept the suggestion of the Italian Government that some of the funds
entrusted to its administration by the American people should be devoted
to the maintenance of an agricultural colony in Sicily or Calabria for
the care of a hundred or more of the orphaned children. In national
relief the American Red Cross does not permit the use of its emergency
funds for the purpose of any permanent endowments, but in international
relief it believes it wisest to act under the suggestion of the American
diplomatic representative, the Government and relief committees in the
country where the disaster occurs. Therefore, when Mr. Griscom, the
Ambassador at Rome, after consulting with the Italian Government, asked
that such an agricultural orphanage colony be maintained by a donation
from the American Red Cross, the suggestion was promptly complied with.
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars are to be devoted to this purpose.

[Illustration: REAR-AD. PRESLEY M. RIXEY

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]

The colony will be situated in Sicily or Calabria, and will consist of
model farms, where scientific agricultural instructions will be given by
agents of the Royal University of Agriculture. The Italian Government
will furnish the land, and the Italian National Relief, under the
patronage of Queen Helena will provide the buildings. It will be called
“The American Red Cross Orphanage,” and the American Ambassador is to
be an ex-officio member of its governing committee. It is to be a lay
institution, and not ecclesiastical. A yearly budget of its expenses
will be published, which must meet the approval of the Minister of the
Interior, who at present is also the Prime Minister. A number of the
poor women left widows and dependent by the earthquake, and who in many
cases also lost their little children, will be given employment at this
orphanage, and the care of other little children will help to lift this
sorrow from their hearts. From these women the children will receive
again much of that mother-love and care of which this terrible disaster
has robbed them.

[Illustration: SURG.-GEN. WALTER WYMAN

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]

Speaking of this orphanage, Mr. Griscom writes on February 19 to the
chairman of the Central Committee of the American Red Cross:

    “I can assure you that this generous gift of the American Red
    Cross has made a profound impression in Italy. I made the
    formal presentation to Her Majesty, the Queen, on the 16th
    instant, and Her Majesty was overcome with emotion and for a
    moment at loss to express herself. Finally she made a beautiful
    speech and poured forth her admiration for the organization of
    the American Red Cross.”

Ambassador Griscom, under date of February 18, forwarded to the State
Department for transmission to the American Red Cross two letters from
the Countess Spaletti Rasponi, the President of the Patronato Regina
Elena, and from the Honorable Bruno Chimirri, President of the “Comitato
di Vigilanza,” respectively, expressing the gratitude of the Committee
and Council of the Patronato Regina Elena for the gift of $250,000, for
the establishment of the Orphanage. The letters referred to follow:

[Illustration: MAJ.-GEN. R. M. O’REILLY

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08]

    “EXCELLENCY:

    “The Council of the ‘Opera Nazionale di Patronato Regina
    Elena,’ having known of the conspicuous offer of 1,300,000
    lire made by the American National Red Cross in favor of
    the children whom the recent earthquake has thrown into the
    condition of orphans, has passed a vote of thanks to the
    officers and to Your Excellency, to whose influential interest
    it is due if so important a part of the funds collected in
    America has been devoted to our institution.

    “And I, interpreting the desire of the Council, warmly and
    specially beg Your Excellency to kindly transmit to the
    meritorious American Red Cross the expression of our profound
    and heartfelt gratitude toward all the noble and great American
    nation, not inferior to any other in all the manifestations of
    human genius and solidarity.

    “With the assurances of my highest consideration,

                               “The President,
                               (Signed) “COUNTESS SPALETTI RASPONI.”

[Illustration: HON. ROBERT BACON

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08]

    “MR. AMBASSADOR:

    “I have the honor to offer you the warmest thanks of the
    Committee and Council of the ‘Opera Nazionale di Patronato
    Regina Elena’ for the generous offer which you have made on
    behalf of the Calabrian and Sicilian orphans.

    “I beg you to be good enough to be interpreter of our very
    grateful sentiments to the American Red Cross, which has
    completed, with its splendid gift, its relief work in Calabria
    and Sicily.

    “The Agricultural Colony, which will be named American Red
    Cross Orphanage,’ will perpetuate the remembrance of this
    charity, and will contribute to render continually more close
    the ancient ties of sympathy and friendship which unite Italy
    with your mighty Republic, ties which you called attention to
    in your brilliant speech on the occasion of the centenary of
    the great President Lincoln.

    “Accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my high
    consideration.

                                              (Signed) “B. CHIMIRRI.

    “To His Excellency,
        “Hon. Lloyd C. Griscom,
            “Ambassador of the United States of America, Rome.”




[Illustration: MED. DIRECTOR J. C. WIRE

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08]




HOUSES FOR ITALY


[Illustration]

Our own experiences after serious disasters in the United States
have taught us that in nearly all of such cases one of the most
serious problems to be met is the providing of shelter for the
thousands—sometimes hundreds of thousands of victims. Italy has had this
same serious problem to meet after the late unparalleled disaster in
Sicily and Calabria. The American Ambassador at Rome was requested by the
State Department to consult with the Italian Government as to the best
use to be made of the $500,000 left by the Congressional appropriation of
$800,000, after the supplies on the Navy ships, _Celtic_ and _Culgoa_,
which were sent to the scene of the disaster, had been paid for. The
reply came in the nature of a request that this fund be expended in the
purchase and providing of materials for houses. This suggestion has been
admirably carried out by the Navy Department, which has purchased and
shipped, fully prepared, materials for the immediate erection of 2,500
houses, including window sashes, doors, etc., and the charter of four
ships for their transportation. Some eight expert carpenters and a large
number of tools have been sent on these vessels, that the erection of
these houses may go on promptly.

[Illustration: HON. JAMES R. GARFIELD

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]

But the need of shelter will continue, for Mr. Griscom writes that the
homes of 1,100,000 persons have been completely or partially destroyed
and their mode of life interrupted, so on his advice and that of the
Italian Government, the American Red Cross, with the kind aid of
Pay-Inspector J. A. Mudd, of the United States Navy, who took entire
charge of this matter, purchased in New Orleans, at a cost of $100,000,
the materials for 550 complete houses, chartering for the purpose of
their transportation the S. S. _Newlands_, which sailed for Messina on
February 11. Besides the materials for these houses, there was shipped
a large quantity of lumber. No carpenters nor tools were sent on this
vessel, as those already sent on the Government ships would be available
for the work of erecting these Red Cross houses, each of which will have
before it a little metal enameled placard in red, white and blue, of
which a reproduction is given at the head of this article.

[Illustration: HON. HENRY M. HOYT

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]

Ex-Governor Guild on January 26 informed the Red Cross that forty-nine
portable houses could be obtained in Massachusetts from the Springfield
Portable Construction Company. These were purchased for $6,978, and
shipped on one of the vessels carrying the government lumber directly to
Messina, without expense. The Springfield Portable Construction Company
kindly returned to the Red Cross $500 of the payment made on these houses
as their contribution for the relief work.

As the Congressional appropriation has been entirely expended for house
materials and the chartering of ships, the American Red Cross, besides
expending $10,000 for the erection of the houses it has sent over, has
transmitted $38,000 to pay for the erection of the houses to be made from
the materials purchased and shipped by the United States Government.




[Illustration: HON. ELIHU ROOT

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]




EARLY DAYS OF RELIEF

BY W. BAYARD CUTTING, JR.

Special Representative of the American National Red Cross.


_Mr. W. Bayard Cutting, the American Vice-Consul at Milan, who was
promptly sent to the scene of the disaster by the Ambassador at Rome to
look after American and consular interests, was requested by the American
Red Cross to act there as its Special Representative, and $15,000 was
placed at his disposition to meet any immediate needs, especially those
of any Americans he might discover among the victims. Mr. Cutting most
kindly consented to act in this capacity. He was on the scene within a
few days of the catastrophe, and his interesting article written for the_
BULLETIN _gives a graphic description of the early days of the relief
work. The Red Cross is not only indebted to Mr. Cutting for this article,
but for the valuable aid he rendered to the Society._—EDITOR.

When the steamer _Nord Amerika_ entered the harbor of Messina on
the morning of January 2, 1909, there was no excited rush among the
passengers to get a first view of the town. We knew that we were about
to have one of the greatest impressions of our life, to see a panorama
of desolation and destruction such as the world has rarely presented in
the history of man. Amid that desolation we were to live for days and
weeks, and to perform trying duties; new sensations would soon crowd
upon us; curiosity would be satisfied all too soon. Meanwhile there was
no reason for hurrying to a scene of horror. Thus we sat uneasily in
the saloon, where we had spent a night of seasick misery, and tried to
munch dry bread and ship’s biscuit, inventing pretexts for not going on
deck. We all dreaded the flames and the ruins, and the corpses floating
through the straits, up and down with the tide. Then the engines stopped;
we had arrived, and must go ashore. Each of us stuffed a loaf or a
biscuit into his pocket, and had a look at his revolver. Those few who
had water-bottles filled them. With nerves braced to face any horrors, we
ascended the companion way.

[Illustration: HON. JAMES TANNER

Copyright, Harris-Ewing, ’08.]

We saw what the traveler to Messina has seen through the centuries—one of
the beautiful places of the earth bathed in the light of the rising sun.
We were close to the shore, it is true, and could make out the ruins. The
palaces fronting along the stately Marina were roofless. There were gaps
between the palaces—white heaps of debris. Toppling buildings, and houses
without outer walls, like children’s doll houses, could be made out.
Here and there out of a roof came flames and curling smoke. But to see
all this one had to look for it. What attracted the eye, and compelled
attention through the magical appeal of its beauty, was a broad expanse
of still water, protected from the sea by a projecting point of land;
then a flat water front, two or three miles long; and behind, circle
after circle of hills, bewildering in their rich variety of form and
color. This was the real Messina, you felt, what an ancient phraseology
would call its formal and final causes. With those fertile hills, with
this spacious harbor, situated on a principal trade route, Messina would
always be a city. Houses and inhabitants there would always be to embody
the Messina idea, to fulfill the Messina purpose.

[Illustration: HON. W. BAYARD CUTTING, JR. U. S. VICE-CONSUL AT MILAN.
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE AMERICAN RED CROSS.]

The port was filled with ships, flying the flags of many nations. Boatmen
in rowboats surrounded the _Nord Amerika_ and offered to take us ashore.
There was nothing catastrophic or even dramatic in their appearance
and manner. I was almost disappointed to see them so well dressed, and
pleased, on the other hand, to observe that they did not attempt to
bargain. From the boatmen, as a matter of fact, when I talked to them,
I first derived that strong impression of the oriental affinity of the
Sicilians which deepened with every day of my stay in Messina. Their mood
was one of submission, unsurprised and unassertive, to the hard hand of
fate. They did not rebel nor complain, and on the other hand they would
not strive. Life had ceased to have any value; why trouble about its
prolongation? It was folly to think of building a comfortable house, when
there was no one left to occupy it; or to earn money which could bring
no sweetness. So most of them sat idly in the streets, or under the roof
of the market, and took what food was put before them; or stood watching
the soldiers dig in their own homes, where their families were buried,
without raising a hand to help. The few who worked, like our boatmen, did
not care what pay they received. A piece of bread they were glad to get;
but when it was a matter of money, one lira or five was all the same.

This apathy of the native population, amounting to a kind of stupor,
since it abolished even begging, stood out sharply before us, when we
went ashore, in contrast to the activity of the military forces. As we
turned to the left down the long Marina—we had landed near the northern
extremity of the town and it was clear that the center of things was far
to the south—the way was so crowded that we could not walk more than two
abreast, and were often obliged to fall into single file. The Marina is a
broad promenade along the water’s edge; but at least half its width was
blocked with debris from the palaces at the back; and on the water side
the way was stopped by impediments of all kinds; piles of lumber, blanket
heaps and rude huts put up for temporary shelter—tarpaulins spread over
poles, for the most part. As we walked down the middle, picking our
way among the cracks and fissures in the ground, we were constantly
making way for troops of soldiers with spades and pick-axes over their
shoulders. Almost equally numerous were the parties bearing long lines of
litters. They were marching in our direction or else out of side streets
to our right; and as they passed we looked nervously at each burden,
to see whether the face was uncovered. Sometimes it was; occasionally
even the occupant of the litter was raised on his elbow, staring with
uncomprehending curiosity at the crowd on either side. More often no
face was exposed; then we knew that the man was one of those dead who
encumbered the path to the living. No bodies were touched, we knew,
unless they actually impeded the work of rescue. Otherwise they must be
left alone; the living had the first claim. Yet the line of litters was
unending.

[Illustration: ILLUSTRATING THE CAPRICIOUSNESS OF THE EARTHQUAKE.]

[Illustration: SOLDIERS BEARING A WOUNDED MAN RESCUED ON THE SEVENTH DAY
AFTER THE EARTHQUAKE.]

On our right the view of the town was screened by a line of fairly intact
house fronts. The principal palaces of Messina had flanked the Marina;
their outer walls had resisted bravely, on the whole. Such glimpses as
we got of the interiors made it clear that those walls were mere shells;
still they gave to the Marina a deceptive appearance of solidity. Between
the palaces, however, came long heaps of mere debris, thirty or forty
feet high. One of them we knew must be our consulate; but which? No one
could tell us. No one could even direct us to the military headquarters,
or to the office of the Prefect. The Italian officers knew less than the
native inhabitants; they were strangers and newcomers like ourselves.
We walked ahead at random towards the curve at the southern end of the
harbor where masts and funnels were most numerous. Occasionally, as we
passed a side street less completely blocked than the rest, we got a
view of the interior of the town—an incoherent extravagance of ruin such
as no pen can describe. The street always ended in a mountainous mass
of wreckage; but the houses at the sides had assumed every variety of
fantastic attitude. Beams and pillars crossing at absurd angles; windows
twisted to impossible shapes, floors like “montagnes russes;” roofs half
detached and protruding, preserved in place quite inexplicably. And
then front walls torn away, laying bare the interior of apartments. In
the same house one room would be a heap of wreckage, and its neighbor
absolutely intact, with the music open at the piano, a marked book on
the table, and the Italian Royal Family looking down from the walls. A
third room perhaps held nothing but a chandelier, but that chandelier
in perfect condition, without a broken globe. No two houses were alike;
the earthquake had picked its victims here and there, following no
predictable rule. Sometimes the victims could be seen lying in their own
houses. Here and there a rope of knotted sheets hanging from a window
showed where someone had escaped. And everywhere solitude and silence,
save for the sound of the pick and the shovel. Only the soldiers and
officials were allowed in the town: all others must remain on the Marina.


RED CROSS STATION.

A little this side of the Municipio, or city hall, which we identified
through the flames and smoke in which it was enveloped, we came upon a
Red Cross station—a square building belonging to the Custom House. Here,
stretched out in the sun, lay the rescued of the day—five or six only,
for it was not yet nine o’clock. Opposite the Municipio was the covered
market, now the home of hundreds of survivors, and a place where bread
was distributed. Between the market and the Municipio a marble Neptune of
the eighteenth century still posed in nude absurdity. The most trivial
of figures in the most trivial of poses had been spared, to the tips of
his silly fingers, to stand between the flaming wreckage of the palace
and the human wreckage of the market. Still further along, where the
Marina widened again, we came upon the landing where the dead were laid
out—men, women and children, all deposited in haste under some inadequate
covering; a ghastly sight. From time to time a row boat would come up to
the landing. The bodies were piled into it, and rowed out to sea.

The Commander-in-Chief, we ascertained at last, could be found on the
Duca di Genova, a steamer of the merchant marine anchored at the southern
end of the harbor. Our struggle through the crowds to the landing stage;
our fruitless efforts to get a boat; our final success, through the help
of a friendly Italian officer; our visits to one ship and another, to
authorities military and civil; our vain attempts to extract even the
simplest information, such as the situation of our consulate and the
fate of our consul; all this would be as dreary to tell as it was to
experience. After three or four hours of ceaseless effort we returned
to the shore with the following net acquisitions: an order for a tent,
which we might pitch at a place to be appointed by the General in command
of the third sector; permission to send one short official telegram; and
a friend.

The friend was Mr. Baylis Heynes, a British merchant of Messina, who
represented the firm of Peirce Brothers. His house had been spared by
the earthquake. After taking his wife and children to a villa outside
of the town, he had hurried back without a thought for personal safety
or comfort and had thrown himself into the work of saving lives and
property. In the villa his wife was caring for more than fifty destitute
Messinesi, with such little food and clothing as she could procure.
Mr. Heynes meanwhile was indefatigable in the work of rescue; and his
coolness and intelligence at a time when everyone else was excited and
flustered had already proved of inestimable value. He now offered us
his house for a consulate, and the large garden behind for a Red Cross
hospital. They were situated at the extreme northern end of the town,
more than two miles from the headquarter’s ships. But the house was solid
and uninjured and the garden spacious; it was in fact the “Lawn Tennis
Club” of Messina. We accepted gladly Mr. Heynes’ kind offer, and started
back with him to inspect the premises.

[Illustration: TEN WOUNDED. LYING BY THE RED CROSS STATION. RESCUED ON
THE MORNING OF THE EIGHTH DAY AFTER THE EARTHQUAKE.]

It was no longer morning. The sun had been shining brightly for
many hours. The smell of the dead rose from the earth, unendurably
penetrating. It floated across the Marina on a light shore breeze; then
at places it became suddenly pungent, so pungent that you expected to
tread upon the cause. The ruined masses beside us took on a new horror.
Beneath them, close to the dead of whose presence we were unconscious,
were thousands of living, whose only air was the air we smelt. How few
the soldiers seemed, in comparison to the gigantic task of excavation!
And why were they all away? Poor men, they needed their mid-day rest,
perhaps the full three hours they were given; but could there not be
twice as many, working in relays?


AMERICAN CONSULATE.

Mr. Heynes pointed out the Consulate—perhaps the largest, solidest, most
hopeless mass of rubbish in the whole of Messina. Nothing deserving
the name of an object was discernable in the whole pile, except the
long flag-staff which protruded from the heap towards the street. The
Consulate had been a corner house on a side street; surely we ought to be
able to identify at least the remains of the stone arch which had marked
the entrance to the street. But the mass was absolutely compact and
uniform, obliterating every trace of an opening. It was not astonishing
that the soldiers had left that particular pile unexcavated. Hundreds of
men would be needed, for many days, to get to the bottom of the mound;
and what chance was there, at the end, of finding a survivor? The fate of
Dr. and Mrs. Cheney was already a tragic certainty; the best that could
be hoped was that their death had been instantaneous.

[Illustration: THE RUINS OF THE AMERICAN CONSULATE.]

Not far beyond the Consulate, on a side street near the Piazza Vittoria
(now a large camp, filled with tarpaulin shacks), we saw the ruined house
of Mr. Joseph Peirce, who had been our vice-consul until six days before
the earthquake. A few soldiers were working in the heap; and several
of the former occupants of the building were standing by, each waiting
for some relative to be disinterred. One of the bystanders had been
two days buried under the house, but had worked himself near enough to
the surface to make himself heard, and had thus been rescued. All had
known Mr. Peirce; two said they had seen him on the second day after
the earthquake, his body buried and terribly crushed, his head alone
appearing out of the wreckage. They told us that his brother had come to
save him, but had not been able to remove the heavy pile of masonry and
beams. When all efforts proved unavailing the brother had said goodbye to
Mr. Peirce and stood there till he died. The body was gone now, evidently
the brother had removed it later.

When we had returned to the Marina, near the point where we had first
landed, we found our baggage heaped in the middle of the road. To
my servant, Antonio Alegiani, who sat upon the pile, an old man was
talking voluble English without noticing that he was not understood. The
stranger introduced himself as John B. Agresta, a naturalized American, a
pensioner of the Civil War and a very important person at the consulate.
He had been guide and interpreter. He had done much work for Dr. Cheney.
He would show us everything, the part of the house where the Cheneys
slept, the office, the safe; especially the safe. In it we should find
two thousand lire belonging to him (Agresta). Why did we not come at once
instead of wasting time talking to people who knew nothing? Dr. Cheney
was dead, of course, and Mrs. Cheney. And Mr. Lupton? Yes, he was dead,
too, and there was no doubt of it. Agresta had seen him the night before
the earthquake, and had since seen his hotel, not a stone of it in place.
Poor Mr. Lupton was certainly dead.

Just at this moment a young man with a pipe in his mouth came round the
corner. “Why, hello, Agresta,” he said, “glad to see you alive.” It was
Lupton himself, our vice-consul. We thought he must have stepped out of
a ruin, or been dug out; in our greeting, no doubt, was something of the
awe with which one would salute a visitor from the other world. Lupton
soon explained that he had never left the earth, nor even its surface.
Half of his hotel had been spared; he had walked down the stairs into
the black street, and waded about in water up to his knees till morning
dawned. The story has been published in his own words; I wish I could
insert the anecdotes and reproduce the turns of the phrases with which
he made us see, as in a flash, that prodigious morning of December 28th.
We told him we had come to help him, and put ourselves under his orders;
he seemed glad to see us; we were soon friends. Together we set out to
inspect Mr. Heynes’ house and garden.

It was a solid two-story building, one of an uninjured block; the very
house, as a tablet reminded us, in which Garibaldi had lived at the time
of his triumphant entrance into Messina at the head of the Thousand. Over
the door we set up the American shield, and hung out the flag from a
corner window. A week later the British flag flew beside it. Mr. Heynes
had been appointed acting vice-consul of his nation. Meanwhile we turned
the entrance hall below into a consular office, and set up our beds
in the large garden behind, under a tent, so soon as we were able to
obtain that coveted article. Sleeping upstairs was unsafe, so long as we
continued to have four or five shocks a day, some of them severe enough
to bring down a number of buildings.

Once settled, three problems confronted us; to excavate the old
consulate, to ascertain the fate of such Americans as had been in Sicily
at the time of the earthquake, and to bring relief to the suffering
population of Messina.

The first task fell almost entirely to Major Landis, our Military Attachè
at the Embassy in Rome. On the night of our arrival a squad of thirty
Italian soldiers, under a lieutenant, was put at his disposition for
the excavation of the consulate, and there he spent the work hours of
the next fortnight. Towards the end the Italian soldiers were replaced
by sailors from our own warships; it was the crew of the _Illinois_ who
finally discovered the remains of Dr. and Mrs. Cheney. They were found
at the very bottom of the pile, only four feet above the street level,
though their bedroom had been on the second floor. They had been killed
at once and apparently without suffering; it was reasonable to hope that
no return of consciousness had broken the slumber from which they passed
into eternal rest.

[Illustration: RUINS OF THE HOUSE OF MR. JOSEPH PEIRCE, FORMER AMERICAN
VICE-CONSUL.]

[Illustration: EXCAVATING THE RUINS OF MR. PEIRCE’S HOUSE.]

Our second duty was to find and succor Americans. Among the survivors
at Messina, besides Dr. Lupton and Agresta, we found only one family, a
naturalized American with the six small children of one of his brothers
who lived in Brooklyn. These we sent back to the United States. But, what
Americans had been killed? This question we had no means of solving. We
had brought with us long lists of Americans known to be in Sicily, whose
relatives were inquiring anxiously about their fate. Something must be
attempted in order to put an end to the agonized suspense of so many
families. Most of the persons whom we wished to find were doubtless safe
at one of the Sicilian resorts. As for telegrams, none had yet arrived
from any source, and letters were not delivered until the eleventh day;
there were no postal clerks, we were informed, to distribute them. It was
plain that the only way to get information was to go and get it. Two of
us were accordingly detailed to take the train to Taormina.

After obtaining with some difficulty the military pass allowing us to
return, we walked to the railroad station and boarded a train. No one
knew whether it would start that day or the next. As a matter of fact it
began to move less than two hours after our arrival, and with surprising
speed considering its portentous length and its over-crowded condition.
In spite of long stops at every station, to take out wounded or to let
them aboard, the journey of thirty miles was completed in two hours and
a quarter. We were surprised to find that after eight or ten miles all
signs of destruction ceased. The first villages were in ruins, like
Messina; and in the fields soldiers were digging great rows of trenches,
in which they deposited lime: obviously the sea was no longer to receive
all the dead. But soon we came upon towns with only a few fallen houses;
before long a mutilated roof was a curiosity; and fifteen miles from
Messina the country presented a completely normal appearance. We did not
realize then that those villages between Messina and Taormina were in
greater distress than any district, probably, in the whole of Sicily or
Calabria. Thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of refugees from the city
fled on foot to these little towns, imploring charity. The inhabitants
received them with true hospitality and gave them of their best. But as
the days and weeks passed the supply of food ran short. Nothing arrived
by rail; the trains were filled with cargoes for Messina or else for
Taormina or Catania; charity passed the little places by. It was a month
after the earthquake that two American gentlemen from Taormina, Messrs.
Wood and Bowdoin, discovered and reported the incredible distress of
this starving rural population. And now another American, Mr. Billings,
of Boston, is devoting himself to the relief of this district and
is spending there the principal part of the generous offerings of
Massachusetts.


TAORMINA.

Taormina was full of rumors. For a week the only news had been supplied
by wounded refugees, distraught with fear and misery; in their
description the earthquake had become almost a supernatural event.
Strange lights had blazed in the sky; a comet had struck the earth
and raised the waters of the deep. Luckily the wires to Catania and
Syracuse, and from Catania to Palermo, were open. By telegraphing to
all of these cities and by searching the hotel registers of Taormina,
we were able to find nearly all the names on our lists. There were many
Americans still in Taormina and many English. All of them were working
together, distributing relief and caring for the sick. A hundred and
fifty refugees were in the hospital of Taormina and three hundred and
eighty in the little fishing village of Giardini at the foot of the
cliff. Our countrymen were working night and day to help them, giving
them food and clothing; and instead of complaining of the heavy burden
of so many patients, they begged us to send more. One or two of them met
every train from Messina, to distribute bread to the hungry passengers.
The ladies devoted themselves chiefly to the hospitals, where they worked
with unremitting energy.


BACK TO MESSINA.

Our brief glance at the efficient relief of Taormina made the conditions
at Messina, upon our return, seem even more desperate than before. Here
the problem was vastly complicated by the dispersion of the population
and the lack of any registers of inhabitants. The scarcity of houses had
driven the population to take refuge, so far as possible, in the hill
villages surrounding the town. Here most of the families were installed,
not only the able-bodied, but the sick and wounded as well. One of each
family would spend the days in Messina, trying to procure enough food to
keep his relatives alive. The complete lack of transport animals and the
absorption of the soldiers in the work of rescue, made relief expeditions
to the villages impossible. For food distributions in Messina the rule
had been adopted; one man, one loaf. The absence of registers made it
possible for a strong man to push repeatedly to the head of the line, and
to get bread at all the distributing places in succession. The result was
a more or less disorderly rush for bread at all the distributing points,
and the exclusion of all but the strongest, while many worthy families
suffered from hunger in the midst of comparative plenty.

On the evening of our first arrival at Messina, I had a chance to talk
to Senator Duranti, the chief of a hospital expedition sent by the order
of the Cross of Malta. I asked him what articles of food, clothing
and medical supplies were most needed, and how the American money
accumulating in Rome could be spent with most profit to Messina. He told
me that medical stores of all kinds were sadly wanted, and that there was
still a lack of food, bread, macaroni, olive oil, butter, and especially
milk—for the women and children—and also underclothes and shirts. The
milk should be sterilized, not condensed, because the ignorant peasant
women could not be induced to give their children an unaccustomed food,
especially if it had to be prepared or mixed. Acting upon Senator
Duranti’s advice, we telegraphed that night to the Ambassador in Rome for
the enumerated supplies. The U. S. despatch boat _Scorpion_, which had
just arrived from Constantinople, was starting for Naples to coal. Her
commander, Captain Logan, kindly took our dispatches to the Ambassador,
and brought back the supplies, which we received on the 6th. At the same
time we learned that an American relief ship was being stocked in Rome,
and would soon arrive with huge stores of food and clothing, and that the
U. S. S. _Culgoa_ was due on the 8th from Port Said with immense supplies
of all kinds.

The arrival of our first stores—which luckily far exceeded our
requests—brought us face to face with the problem of direct distribution.
Messina was already more orderly. On the 6th or 7th the Marina was first
lighted by electricity—a fortunate occurrence, since most of the foreign
warships on whose search lights we had been dependent, had now departed.
To these ships Messina and Italy had good reason to be grateful.


BRITISH AND RUSSIAN SAILORS’ AID.

I do not know what words could adequately convey the extent of service
rendered by all the fleets, but especially the British and Russian. As
transports, store ships, refugees’ hospitals, telegraph stations they
had been invaluable: but it was as rescuers of the living that they were
pre-eminent. The Russian sailor was a revelation to those who did not
know the quiet common sense, the tactful sympathy and the unassuming
heroism of the moujik. The Russians were the only people who always had
everything on the spot. The saying got about that they had ordered the
earthquake and fitted out a fleet beforehand for the purpose of relief.
As to the British bluejackets, they had not a reputation to make. They
did exactly what was expected of them; and in the expected way; that
is with energy and courage, with easy practical mastery of every kind
of work, and with complete unconsciousness of anything unusual or
particularly meritorious in their performance. And the English nation
and press, instinctively realizing that silence may be a higher tribute
than praise, has accepted the fleet’s work at its own valuation; as a
task performed in the ordinary way of duty, and performed well, as became
British sailors.

About the same time or a little later, the water supply was connected
with a portion of the town. Lack of water had been one of our chief
discomforts. It could be procured at one place only, two miles from the
consulate; with great difficulty we had obtained a pailful each day for
our party. The streets had become filthy beyond description: now it was
possible to flood them. A train to Palermo crawled out of Messina from
time to time. The dead were being removed from the streets, and many of
them were buried instead of being taken out to sea. On the fires in front
of the tarpaulin houses stood pots of macaroni cooking. The hospital
ships which departed for Naples, Genoa or Catania were no longer crowded
to over-flowing. The people actually living in Messina were comparatively
comfortable. But every improvement in organization brought out more
clearly the needs which confusion had obscured. Inside the city and out,
no one had any clothes except what he had been able to snatch from his
house on the morning of the 28th; and not two miles from the Municipio,
in all directions, ran the hunger line—beyond which lay the region of
actual famine.

It must be remembered that Messina was in a state of siege. That means
that it was controlled in every department by a single central military
authority. The state of siege was necessary in order to maintain order
and health; but it entailed inevitable disadvantages in connection with
relief work. Effective relief should be decentralized; it should operate
through innumerable agents invested with responsibility and discretionary
power, who seek out the individual and have the means to assist him.
Government by martial law means that nothing can be done or given except
by permission of the military chief, and an order for stores cannot be
obtained in a minute. This was why the hospitals, the Red Cross stations
and relief agencies of all kinds were so frequently short of supplies.
Requisitions of particular articles which had run out, such as brandy
or antiseptics or milk, required too great an expense of time; the
workers were everywhere fewer than the needs: they could not be spared.
From our own experience in sending telegrams or procuring permits we
learned to appreciate the inevitable disabilities of a system of complete
centralization in dealing with a situation of such chaotic complexity.

What part we could take as independent distributors was not evident.
Under the circumstances we decided to divide our supplies into three
parts. The first, consisting of medical stores, milk, butter, oil,
chocolate and underclothes, was given to the central medical officials,
for use in the hospitals. The second, of a similar nature, we took to
Reggio and San Giovanni, for distribution to the hospitals there. The
medical authorities of each place selected from our lists the articles
of which they were in need. The remainder of the stores we took to the
consulate and distributed ourselves.

[Illustration: THE QUAY WHERE CORPSES WERE LAID OUT, AWAITING BURIAL AT
SEA.]

In picking out individuals to assist, we paid special attention to
residents of our own district, with whom we were beginning to become
acquainted, to persons known to Mr. Heynes, and to such inhabitants
of Messina as had some connection with America. We were constantly
asked by Messinesi to send telegrams to their relatives in the United
States, and if possible to help them rejoin those relatives. But as our
immigration laws forbid the importation of the destitute, we had to tell
the applicants that we could send their telegrams, but that we could not
provide passage to America.

The consulate soon became a busy place. Two soldiers stood at the door
to keep the line of applicants in order; inside, one of us investigated
the applicants, and registered the facts of each case in a book, another
took the written orders and brought back the stores, which were handed
out by a third. It is perhaps superfluous to add that in cases of actual
hunger no investigation was attempted. The help of Mr. and Mrs. Heynes
was invaluable throughout. It enabled us to send stores to families at
a distance, who had not heard of our consulate or were unable to come.
Other pitiable cases were brought to our attention by the American and
English newspaper correspondents, and by Mr. Frank A. Perret, the seismic
expert well known for his heroism at the time of the eruption of Vesuvius
in 1906.

Meanwhile the United States Warships _Yankton_ and _Culgoa_, the latter
loaded with stores, had joined the _Scorpion_ in the harbor. The sailors
were detailed to help us clean the house and garden and put up a number
of tents for a hospital. Colonel Radcliffe, the British Military Attachè,
to whose clear-headed determination is due the chief credit for the
admirable organization of British relief work, aided us in countless
ways. He was occupied at that time in searching for the body of Mrs.
Ogston, wife, of the British Consul. When the remains were found, it
was a party of American sailers from the _Connecticut_ that formed the
funeral escort.


ARRIVAL OF THE “BAYERN.”

Then, on the evening of the 8th, arrived the American Red Cross Relief
Ship _Bayern_, with the American Ambassador aboard and the American Naval
Attachè, Captain Belknap, in command. I am still amazed at the intuitive
grasp of the situation displayed by the organizers of the expedition.
From inception to completion, in every detail of planning and execution,
the cruise of the _Bayern_ was emphatically a success.

Messina was not the place, however, where the _Bayern_ was needed.
A day ashore convinced the Ambassador and the committee that large
distributions of food and clothing were not advisable at the present
time. Supplies and a sum of money were given to the Archbishop of
Messina, for his hospital; the stock at the consulate was replenished; a
trip was made to the Calabrian coast, where the military authorities were
given what stores they requested; then, early on the morning of the 11th,
the _Bayern_ sailed for Catania.


CATANIA.

We went ashore, wondering whether we were needed. An hour later we
wondered whether it was worth our while to think of going anywhere else.
The situation at that time was simply appalling: it is appalling today,
five weeks after our visit. Catania and every house in Catania had been
swamped with refugees. Three thousand of them lay in the five hospitals;
two thousand in the three main refuges—converted barracks or convents;
and twenty thousand were scattered over the city. One lady whom we met
had sixty in her own house; another, thirty: another, seventeen. The
Prefect was spending 20,000 lire daily, a sum barely sufficient to supply
bread rations and to keep the hospitals running, but quite insufficient
to provide sheets or clothing for the patients. Even the hospitals were
short of mattresses; in the refuges the inmates slept on heaps of straw.
The little towns in the country districts were as full of refugees as
Catania and in still greater distress; at Catania there was at least
bread. Red Cross branches, municipal committees of men and women, were
working valiantly, but they were struggling with absolute penury—a
complete lack of funds. The money received by the Prefect from the
Government appeared to be the only cash from the outside which had yet
arrived at Catania. It was still only a fortnight since the earthquake.
Apparently no one in Italy had yet realized that money was needed
immediately in places like Catania. Food and clothing were sent, for
instance, but at Catania the food and clothing shops were well stocked.
The _Bayern_ after giving away nearly its whole supply of clothes renewed
the supply by purchases at Catania for distribution at Reggio. Obviously
it would have been more economical to have given the Catanians money to
buy the clothes of which they were in want than to send the clothes from
Italy. The work of making up the clothes could have been given to the
refugees themselves, had there been money to pay them. It is true that
at Catania, as elsewhere, we found a general conviction that nothing
would make the refugees work. The women, it was said, had their children
to look after; the men could think of nothing but returning to Messina
to recover their property and the remains of their relatives. All were
plunged in a state of morbid apathy which made work out of the question.
This view, however plausible under the circumstances, has been completely
disproved; wherever the refugees have been given work to do _under proper
supervision_, they have worked. But at Catania the point was not worth
arguing. There was no money to buy stuffs and sewing machines, or to
pay wages; no rooms which could be used as workshops. A movement might
have been organized to employ fifty or a hundred women, perhaps; but
with 25,000 refugees to keep from starvation and crime the city could
not spare any of its workers to organize an employment agency which, at
the best, would benefit only a few persons. Nothing but large sums of
ready money could have helped the situation; and ready money was not
yet forthcoming. The _Bayern_ had brought a certain amount of money to
distribute; and I had funds of the American Red Cross. With what we had
we were able to give sums of cash to the committees, the hospitals, the
refuges and other charities.

The hospitals of Catania alone took almost all the clothes, blankets and
medical stores we had to give. Yet the hospitals were in an enviable
situation compared to the refuges. Here the inmates were in a worse
plight than when they had escaped, half-naked from the ruins of Messina.
A blanket, a heap of straw, and a daily bread ration, was about all the
average inmate had received since his arrival. Few of them had changed
their clothes or brushed their hair once: all were living in a state of
filth, which extended to their persons and their habitations and which
was a menace to the health of the town. Let no one think that their
plight was the result of neglect. The Catanians showed no neglect or
inefficiency. They worked hard and they worked with intelligence, but
they had no money.

A curious and by no means reassuring feature of the refuges was the
willingness of their inmates to stay where they were, or rather their
unwillingness to move. I noticed the same fact at Palermo, where the
condition of the refugees was similar, though perhaps less distressing.
The inertia induced originally by the complex action of physical and
moral shocks on an oriental fatalistic temperament increased rapidly,
alarmingly, under the influence of a life without interest, occupation,
pleasure or duty. Dependent squalor soon became pleasant, and any
return to independence uninviting. The hope of getting a cigar from
some visitor was enough to fill the day satisfactorily. Dirt, we know,
soon became endurable; as a philosopher once said, “Every man is clean
enough for himself.” What had happened already at the time of our visit
was that the inmates of the refuges had begun to regard their present
life as permanent, and had abandoned even the desire to change it; they
had been turned into paupers. Three-quarters of them spent the days in
aimless loafing and chatter; the other quarter lay gloomily on the straw,
thinking of the dead. Unless these people could be awakened, unless
someone should compel them soon to work and to be clean, there were signs
that they would become a permanent burden; and, what is more, a permanent
menace to the population. Criminals are easily made in Sicily and when
they are made they have no difficulty in finding occupation.

[Illustration: ITALIAN SOLDIERS DISINTERRING A CORPSE IN THE RUINS OF THE
OLD CONSULATE.]

[Illustration: BEARING CORPSES DOWN THE CORSO PRINCIPE AMEDEO.]

The problem of the refuges, then, was less to make them more comfortable
than to abolish them as soon as possible and in the meantime to compel
cleanliness and induce work among the inmates. But there was a scarcely
less difficult and more elusive problem connected with the thousands
of refugees scattered about the town in private houses, living in the
garrets and stables. Many of them were skilled laborers of various kinds;
not a few belonged to families of merchants or professional men and to
the well-to-do classes. Their destitution was as complete, of course, as
that of the rest, and the relief awarded to them was the same—a daily
loaf of bread. Some of them were rich, if they could only find their
evidences of wealth. To enable them to do this, and to support them
meanwhile, the Catania business men had formed an association to which we
were glad to be able to make a small contribution.

The general impression created by our visit to Catania was that of
a problem too vast, too complicated, too closely connected with the
habits and temperament of the people for any outsider to solve. To
“rehabilitate” these thousands of peasants, artisans, professional
men, merchants, landed proprietors, would require a carefully matured
plan, which must proceed from the central authorities. But meanwhile,
until the plan should be matured, there was ample scope for beneficent
foreign intervention, and the most useful way to intervene was also
the simplest—by direct money gifts, not indeed to individual refugees,
but to the local relief bodies already organized by Italians. It was
not necessary or even advisable to make large donations to the central
authorities of each place. The system was already rather too much
centralized than too little, as the authorities were the first to
recognize. Far from being jealous of direct donations to the subordinate
or independent institutions, they welcomed anyone who would investigate
the various needs, and give help when help was most wanted. It appeared
to us that the best way to dispose of American money was to entrust it to
an agent on the spot, who should travel up and down the coasts of Sicily
and encourage every well-directed movement by immediate money gifts. In
time such movements would no doubt receive help from Rome; but in the
meantime ready cash from unofficial sources might make the difference
between success and failure.


SYRACUSE.

The _Bayern_ spent three days at Catania. During that time I made a
trip of investigation to Syracuse. Here the refugees numbered only
3,000—one-eighth of the number at Catania; but 900 of these were hospital
patients. Syracuse, too, has only one-seventh of Catania’s population.
Its hospital accommodations at the time of the earthquake were for one
hundred patients. If Syracuse had succeeded better than any other place
in mastering the difficulties of the situation it was not because the
difficulties were insignificant. Syracuse was fortunate in a Prefect
and a Mayor of resource and capacity; in an unusually efficient body of
volunteer workers, with one woman of great ability at their head; and in
the fact that the importance of the work, as a moral and mental tonic
for the refugees, was realized from the very beginning. Syracuse was the
first place where refugees were set to work. The credit for this is due
to an American, Miss Katherine Bennett Davis, head of the New York State
Reformatory for Women.

When Miss Davis first thought of employing refugee women to make clothes
for the hospitals, relief work at Syracuse was just emerging from a
state of chaos. Four hospitals had been equipped after a fashion for the
reception of patients. The Municipal hospital was already in good running
order, through the efforts of Signor Broggi-Reale, head of the local
Red Cross; the Archbishop’s palace was being rapidly transformed into a
second hospital by a number of ladies; at the big barracks conditions
were more primitive until the arrival of a splendidly equipped expedition
of the German Red Cross. Most of the hospitals were short of blankets;
all needed sheets, and all were entirely unsupplied with clothes for the
patients. Of the two thousand able-bodied refugees, eight hundred were
maintained aboard the steamship _Nord Amerika_; the rest were scattered
about the town. A woman’s branch of the Red Cross was being organized
by the Marchesa di Rudini, whose activity covered every branch of the
work of relief and extended beyond the confines of Syracuse, to all
the towns of the province. Her position as wife of one of the largest
landowners of the province and daughter-in-law of Italy’s lamented
premier; her independence of any particular organization; her skill and
tact in uniting individuals and parties made her the most influential
person in Syracuse. To her is due more than to anyone else the excellent
organization of the Syracuse relief work.

Miss Davis was in Sicily in order to rest. The funds at her disposal
amounted to six hundred lire only. But she saw an opportunity to help in
the moral regeneration of the refugees and at the same time to supply
one of the most pressing needs of the city. She went to the mayor and
offered to employ refugee women in making clothes for the hospitals. Like
everyone else, the Mayor had been told that the refugees would not work;
but unlike everyone else, he decided to make the experiment. He gave Miss
Davis two of his own rooms in the Municipio, supplied her with sewing
machines, and promised to furnish all the necessary materials. She opened
her shop on January 8th and soon had fifty women at work.

Miss Davis was not alone in her labors. Besides the support of the
officials and of Madame di Rudini, she had the direct assistance, from
the first, of Mrs. Musson, wife of the British clergyman, and later of
Mrs. Sisco, of Florida. When gifts of money from the American Red Cross
and from the Committee of the _Bayern_ enabled Miss Davis to found a
second workshop at Santa Lucia, the quarter of Syracuse situated on the
mainland, Mrs. Musson became its manager. To supplement her own scanty
knowledge of Italian, Miss Davis employed as interpreter and paymaster
an English resident of Messina, Miss Smith, who had escaped from the
earthquake without any of her belongings beyond what she could carry. The
Syracusan ladies took an active interest in the workshops; two of them,
the Baronesses del Bosco, whose principal work was in the hospitals,
found time nevertheless to give much of their attention to Miss Davis’
work, and assisted her particularly in the cutting-out department.

The workshops were a success from the beginning. Under Miss Davis’
unceasing supervision the women showed no tendency to idleness. A
piece wage which would have put the unskillful and the beginners at a
disadvantage was not found necessary; the women were paid by the day,
one lira and a lunch of bread, cheese and wine. The question naturally
suggested itself, could not the men also be induced to work? And could
not their work be made to contribute, like that of the women, to supply
their own wants?

[Illustration: REFUGEE CAMP IN THE PIAZZA VITTORIA.]

Miss Davis had now the money to carry out her plans. But she had to face
a new difficulty—the jealousy of the local artisans, who resented any
influx of labor. Miss Davis began with the shoemakers because shoes, next
to underwear, were the articles of clothing most needed by the refugees.
She found a number of shoemakers among the refugees. These she induced
the local shoemakers to employ by offering the following advantageous
terms: The local man was to supply the materials and tools and to receive
the price of the product, which Miss Davis promised to buy. She was
also to pay wages to the refugee worker. Thus the refugee was employed,
the local shoemaker profited and the stock of shoes was increased.
At a later date Miss Davis found employment for all the carpenters,
masons and painters among the refugees by paying them to complete a
large two-story building, of which only one story had been built. When
finished the building became an orphan asylum for seventy-five refugee
children. The money for this work was furnished by Mr. Billings out of
the Massachusetts funds.

So far only skilled laborers had been employed. But the persons who
most needed work, those who deteriorated most rapidly when idle, were
the common unskilled laborers belonging to the lowest classes. Even in
their normal condition nothing but hunger would induce these people
to work; now they were fed and were in a state of moral inertia. Miss
Davis’ proposal to the Mayor to employ a squad of sixty day laborers in
improving the roads seemed almost certain to fail. The Mayor, however,
decided to make the attempt; he was to supply tools, materials and
supervision; Miss Davis was to pay the wages. Once more the unexpected
happened; the men worked moderately well at first, then better every day.
In a short time all traces of idleness and discontent had disappeared.

From the point of view of actual achievement and also of example
Miss Davis’ feat at Syracuse seems to me the most important single
contribution to the problem of rehabilitating the sufferers from the
Messina earthquake. Her efforts were not limited, however, to giving
employment. With funds allotted by the _Bayern_ Committee she opened
a pension or home for forty-two refugees of the better class, giving
preference to convalescents from the hospitals. Here for the first time
the refugees found soap, brushes, combs, clean clothes, all the articles
of first necessity of which they had been deprived since the earthquake.
The home was so successful that the Marchesa di Rudini devoted most of
the American money which had been given her, to spend at her discretion,
to founding two similar institutions at Nolo and Avola, small towns of
the province of Syracuse. These homes the Prefect of Syracuse promised
to support out of Government funds when the original donations should be
spent. In Miss Davis’ home at Syracuse the moral health of the inmates
was never forgotten. Before the home had been opened a fortnight the
women among the inmates were busy making clothes, voluntarily and without
pay, for less fortunate refugees. Every scheme of Miss Davis served a
double end—practical utility and moral rehabilitation.

Upon my return to Catania I found the _Bayern_ ready to start for Reggio.
During her stay she had not only dispensed relief to Catania and the
environs, but had also supplied the wants of the Taormina and Giardini
hospitals.


REGGIO.

Of our second visit to Reggio I need say little. It was the saddest
place of any, perhaps; nowhere else were the inhabitants plunged in such
a state of complete dejection. There were no adventurers or imposters
at Reggio: only the remains of families, sitting or standing mournfully
among the ruins of their own homes. There was no danger in giving money
to these people; their need was too obvious, their distress too genuine.
We distributed our cargo, gave what help we could, paid a second visit to
Messina and after two days proceeded to Palermo.


PALERMO.

Conditions at Palermo were only less desperate than at Catania. The
refugees numbered about 11,000, of whom about 900 were in the hospitals.
Nearly all of the remainder were in refuges, very few having been taken
into private houses. All the barracks, the prison, half the schools,
several convents, several theaters, and even a number of churches had
been turned into refuges, of which the largest held as many as a thousand
inmates. The city is larger than Catania, with more wealthy residents;
it was therefore better off in many respects. But it suffered, like
Catania, from the want of money from the outside, from the scarcity of
intelligent workers, and from the particular dangers connected with the
refuges.

I have already described the refuge system. If work is necessary for
all the refugees, it is particularly necessary for those who live in
these large communities. At Palermo their idleness had already turned to
dangerous discontent. They complained constantly of their treatment, but
refused to leave the refuges. No work for them had been organized when we
arrived at Palermo. Enlightened by Miss Davis’ example, we immediately
offered money for the institution of workshops on the same model as
hers. The idea met with general approval. A beginning was made at once
in one of the barracks and in the prison. Mr. Bishop, the American
Consul, to whom we handed over the money for the enterprise, labored
energetically to broaden the basis and extend the scope of the work. In
a few days a ladies’ committee, of which the president was Mrs. Bishop
and the vice-president Countess Mazza, wife of the General in Command
at Messina, had founded workshops in five of the principal refuges, and
another refuge, the Caserna Garibaldi, was organized on the same system
by a parish priest, Father Trupiano, with the approval of the Archbishop
of Palermo. According to the latest reports the Palermo workshops have
been a success, like those of Syracuse. Some concessions had to be made
to the inferior moral condition of the workers at the time when they were
first employed. For instance, they had to be paid by the piece instead of
by the day. But they have not proved idle on the whole, and such work as
they have done has contributed directly to a most important object—the
increase of the supply of clothing. Even if the _Bayern_ committee had
not been able to distribute 1,200 mattresses and 15 tons of food at
Palermo, or to assist the municipal charities, their short visit of eight
hours to the city would have been amply justified by the foundation
of these workshops. With the cruise of the _Bayern_ ended my direct
participation in the work of relief. I have only a second-hand knowledge
of the many other undertakings of the American Red Cross in Italy. But I
have seen enough to have formed a few general opinions which may have a
certain interest for Americans who have contributed to the various relief
funds.


PROBLEMS OF RELIEF.

The Italian government and the Italian Red Cross found themselves, within
a few days of the earthquake, in possession of enormous sums of money.
As the government had the sole access to the afflicted districts and the
sole authentic information about their needs, it was to the government
that all contributions, Italian and foreign, were naturally sent. But
there were several reasons why the government could not immediately turn
that money over to the persons who most needed it or who could use it
best.

In the first place, every consideration had to give place during the
early days before the imperative necessity of transporting troops
to the scene of disaster and of supplying them with the necessary
food and equipment. In the second place, government funds are always
particularly hard to protect from the suspicion of maladministration.
The Italian government may have remembered criticisms of the way in
which former funds had been distributed: at any rate, it determined on
this occasion to exercise all possible vigilance to prevent the waste or
misappropriation of a penny. The distrust of the Sicilians, traditional
in upper Italy, may have increased the tendency to send supplies rather
than money, and to give all orders from a single central source. In
the third place, the temporary feeding and clothing of the destitute
was a very small part of the total relief problem. The end which the
contributions must ultimately subserve was to restore the refugee
population to some kind of normal life, not merely to keep them alive
for a few months. But how to effect their rehabilitation was a question
which could not be answered until many things were known; their numbers,
for instance, the possibility of rebuilding the ruined towns, the amount
of property recoverable, the condition of the harbors, channels, docks—a
hundred facts which only time could reveal. Whenever a general scheme
should be devised, vast sums would be required for its effectuation: till
then it was important not to disperse the accumulating contributions.

This policy of prudence and circumspection, admirable as regards an
ultimate settlement, was defective as a means of relieving immediately
the wants of scattered localities spread over two large and more or
less inaccessible regions. What was wanted in order to supply so many
needs in so many places was a system of extreme decentralization, with
large funds at the unfettered discretion of individual agents. Such
a system was incompatible with the rigid supervision of expenditure
which the government felt to be necessary. It could not be adopted by
the government. But precisely for that reason it could be adopted with
advantage by independent and especially by foreign relief societies. By
giving all their contributions to the Italian central committee they
would indeed be helping in the general plan of rehabilitation which the
central committee was evolving, but they would not be doing the task for
which they were especially fitted and from which the central committee
was to a large extent excluded. If, on the other hand, they entrusted
their funds to agents in Sicily or Calabria, whose duty it should be to
investigate every town and every institution and to help quickly the most
useful and the most needy organizations, they would be doing what no one
else could do so well, and what no one else had done at all.

The objection to such a policy was the risk of giving just offense to the
Italian government and people by interfering in what was essentially an
Italian concern—a problem of internal administration. Such an objection
appears to me to rest as a misconception. The Italians might well resent,
and would very likely have resented, any interference which took the form
of independent relief organizations, with direct pecuniary assistance
of individuals. As a matter of fact, the German Red Cross hospital at
Syracuse was an organization of this kind and it aroused nothing but
enthusiasm. A hospital, however, is not like a distributing agency. What
the Italians would have objected to, and rightly, would have been any
attempt on the part of foreigners to decide Italian questions; how a
given body of men should be employed, where certain orphans should be
sent, what families should first be assisted; or to set up independent
relief bureaus to which individuals might apply, thus duplicating or
confusing the work of the Italians and opening an easy way to imposters.
But there could be no objection, and there was none, to selective
gifts by foreigners to Italian institutions. Such distributions could
not possibly conflict with the official scheme of relief, for all the
charitable institutions of every city were under the control of the
prefect or of the mayor. Certainly during my experience in Sicily no
hint was ever given that gifts to the hospitals, refuges or volunteer
committees were less acceptable than gifts to the prefect or the
mayor. I think it is safe to assert that neither the _Bayern_ nor any
other American relief expedition in Sicily or Calabria has at any time
given umbrage to any local authority. The central authorities at Rome,
meanwhile, have done everything to assist and encourage the independent
American expeditions. The _Bayern_ was organized according to the
advice of the government and with its approbation. Mr. Billings, before
starting for Sicily to distribute the Massachusetts funds, consulted
with several of the Italian ministers, with the head of the Central
Committee, and with the President of the Red Cross. Mr. Gay and Mr. Dodge
were accompanied on their trip to Calabria by an officer of the General
Staff, and were recommended directly by the Ministers of War and of the
Navy to the commanding officers of the different stations. The aim of the
Americans has never been to act independently of the Italians, but simply
to put at the service of the Italians their eyes and brains as well as
their money.


AMERICAN CONTRIBUTIONS.

Americans who have contributed to the relief funds of the American Red
Cross or directly to Italian funds can be satisfied that such part of
their donations as went to the Italian central authorities will be spent
with scrupulous probity in furtherance of a carefully considered and
well matured plan of permanent rehabilitation, and that such part as was
given by American agents has gone quickly and efficiently to the places
where it was most needed, without any interference with the management
by Italians of their own internal affairs. The problem is still in its
early stages. The populations of the destroyed cities are not yet housed;
the refugees are still living idly in the great towns. But that is an
Italian, not an American question. We can be satisfied, it appears to me,
with the system by which our money has been distributed hitherto, and be
content to apply it to the future contingencies. That system has been for
the American Red Cross to find out, through the American Ambassador at
Rome, the exact needs of the Italians, as expressed by the government,
and then to assign its needs for the enumerated purposes, giving a part
to the central Italian authorities and a part to the Ambassador. What the
Ambassador has received he has divided between central institutions and
the relief of local needs. He has kept in touch directly with all the
afflicted regions, through the consular corps, through special agents
and through the reports of workers, and he has at the same time been
in daily communication with the heads of all the official distributing
committees. In this way he has been able to gauge accurately the needs
of the situation. Certain American gifts, like the shipment of the three
thousand houses, and the foundation of an agricultural school for one
hundred children as a part of the Queen Elena Patronato, have produced a
profound impression throughout the length and breadth of Italy because
they have corresponded exactly to the necessities of the moment.

Americans, then, need have no misgivings about the administration of
their donations. Italy cannot repair in a day the effects of so vast, so
overwhelming a calamity as the Messina earthquake; the wound is too deep
to heal quickly. Those only who have seen the misery which bows down the
inhabitants of Sicily and Calabria can realize the tragic helplessness of
all human succor. We must have patience till a way is found. Our nation
can rest satisfied meanwhile that their generous offerings have directly
and sensibly alleviated sufferings and kept hope alive, and they can
rejoice in the opportunity which has been given to them to repay in part
America’s and the world’s immeasurable debt to the land and people of
Italy.

Milan, Italy, February 20, 1909.




RED CROSS RELIEF SHIP “BAYERN”

BY LIEUTENANT-COMMANDER REGINALD R. BELKNAP

United States Navy


                                             ROME, January 19, 1909.

    _Directly after the news reached Rome of the magnitude of the
    disaster in Southern Italy our American Ambassador, Mr. Lloyd
    C. Griscom, organised a committee of prominent American men in
    that city for the purpose of assisting the Italian Government,
    Red Cross and National Committees in the immense work of relief
    that required all the aid human sympathy at home and abroad
    could provide. The fact that Messina was in Sicily; that the
    railroad service had been seriously disorganised, and that the
    necessity of moving troops to the scene of the disaster would
    largely employ what trains and what lines were still available,
    led to the prompt conclusion that aid must be sent mainly by
    sea. Acting under this conviction, the American Committee
    chartered and equipped the steamer Bayern—a few of the members
    guaranteeing the necessary amount so as to lose no time, while
    waiting to hear from Washington if the American Red Cross
    would provide the $100,000 necessary for this purpose. This
    our Red Cross, on receipt of Mr. Griscom’s cable, immediately
    consented to do. Just sixty hours after this ship was chartered
    it entered the harbor of Messina, under the command of the
    American Naval Attachè at Rome, Lieutenant-Commander R. R.
    Belknap, U. S. N._

    _Fifty-eight thousand dollars in a few hours’ time had been
    expended for the medical outfit, provisions and clothing,
    particular attention having been paid to the selection of food
    for little children._

    _Before leaving on the Bayern Mr. Griscom was received by King
    Victor Emmanuel, and notified His Majesty and the Minister of
    Foreign Affairs, Signor Tittoni, who was present, that the
    steamer would fly the Red Cross emblem. Both the King and the
    Minister remarked that his was an admirable example to the
    world of international fraternity for the Geneva Flag to fly
    over a ship carrying aid from one country to another in a
    period of disaster._

    _The following interesting report, somewhat abbreviated as to
    details, has been received from Lieutenant-Commander Belknap,
    to whose ability, conscientious work, deep interest and
    constant energy the American Red Cross is greatly indebted for
    the success of this expedition._—EDITOR.

I have the honor to submit the following report of the cruise of the
North German Lloyd Steamship _Bayern_, which was chartered and fitted
out at Genoa by the American Red Cross, through the American Relief
Committee in Rome, and sailed from Civita Vecchia on January 7, with the
Committee’s expedition on board, to render aid at Messina, Catania and
other places in Sicily and Calabria to sufferers by the earthquake of
December 28, 1908:


PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES

On Monday, January 4, about 6 P. M., the _Bayern_ was engaged, to sail in
36 hours (afterwards changed to 4 P. M., Wednesday, without actual loss
of time to the expedition), provisioned for 50 first-class passengers
for 15 days and 1,000 steerage for 10 days; she was to carry a steam or
motor launch, and every effort was to be made to expedite her loading and
sailing on time. To the American Consul-General in Genoa, Mr. James A.
Smith, the Committee sent the following telegram at midnight, Monday:

    AMERICAN CONSUL, Genoa:

    American Committee for relief work, Calabrian Coast, has
    chartered German Lloyd steamer, _Bayern_, now in Genoa. You
    personally urge agent make every effort get steamer off
    Tuesday night, fifth instant, and arrive Civita Vecchia early
    Wednesday afternoon; also arrange with steamer agent to
    purchase at Committee’s expense and load on _Bayern_ for relief
    distribution large quantity pasta flour, stockfish, tinned milk
    and also especially all available sterilized milk, biscuits,
    olive oil, hams, onions, sausages, beans, potatoes, salted
    pork, cheese, lard, chocolate, beef extract in jars or tins,
    macaroni, sugar, also 500 each blankets, trousers, coats. To
    cover these purchases draw on American Relief Committee Fund
    Banca Commerciale Italiana, Rome, up to 25,000 lire for food
    and 10,000 for clothing. Absolutely necessary that steamer
    have a motor or steam launch on board and other boats suitable
    for landing along the coast, as this is the main purpose of
    the expedition. Committee depends upon your active interest to
    forestall any delay of ship. Report progress Tuesday noon.

                               (Signed) GRISCOM, Chairman Committee.

Next day, Tuesday forenoon, the amount allotted to Consul-General Smith
for purchases in Genoa was increased to 85,000 lire. A very satisfactory
report came from him that afternoon, saying that the _Bayern_ would
surely be ready for us at Civita Vecchia by eight o’clock Thursday
morning.

Definite arrangements were now made for the transportation of the
expedition and the Rome purchases to Civita Vecchia. This matter was
placed entirely in the hands of Mr. Stein, the well-known Spediteur.
The Italian Government placed every facility at the service of the
expedition, both on the railway and at the port of Civita Vecchia; and
the Navigazione Generale Italiana also instructed its agents there and at
all other ports to afford us every assistance, at the same time giving me
a letter of the same purport to present to their agents, if necessary.
With the way thus cleared, Mr. Stein was able to carry out his part with
entire satisfaction and in good time, notwithstanding that Wednesday, the
day when innumerable packages and cases had to be collected from shops
scattered all over Rome, was a fiesta. Much credit is due Mr. Stein for
his success in this.

During the final meeting of the Committee, before the departure of the
expedition, about six o’clock Wednesday evening, word was received from
Mr. Anniser that the _Bayern_ had sailed from Genoa at 4 P. M. Thursday
morning, at 9.30 the expedition left Rome by special train, reaching
Civita Vecchia at 10.55. The Sub-Prefect, the Sindaco and the captain
of the port met the party and conveyed them on board the _Bayern_. Mr.
Anniser, the steamer agent, had come down by earlier train, and with the
local agent of the Navigazione Generale Italiana was attending to all
remaining to be done before departure of the steamer; the loading was
progressing satisfactorily, and expected to be completed in time for
sailing at 4 P. M.

Dr. Bastinelli was not to accompany the expedition, but he had come
down to the ship to advise with Dr. Scelba, chief medical officer of
the expedition, and the ship’s doctor as to the best disposition of the
space available for hospital arrangements. It was decided by them to
keep the medical departments of the expedition and of the ship entirely
separate, with the exception of taking the two rooms allotted as ship’s
hospital for use as isolation rooms for any infectious cases that might
develop. The necessary work of arrangement recommended by the doctors was
immediately undertaken.

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND PASSENGERS ABOARD THE “BAYERN.”]

Directly on coming on board I conferred with Mr. Anniser, the agent, and
Captain Max Mitzlaff, commanding the _Bayern_, coming to the necessary
understanding as to the control and management of the vessel and work
of various kinds. Captain Mitzlaff promptly grasped the situation, and
from the first moment did all in his power to forward the work of the
expedition. He never made an objection; often suggested improvements that
I was glad to adopt; and what was most important of all, he communicated
his own zeal and interest throughout his entire ship’s company. Our
relations throughout were most cordial, and I feel that we were most
fortunate in having Captain Mitzlaff in command of the ship.

All guests were started ashore at 2.30 P. M., and loading was completed
at 4. The captain of the port very kindly procured for us three small
boats against the need of landing on an open beach, for which the ship’s
boats were less suitable, and at 4.07 the _Bayern_ sailed.


PERSONNEL OF THE EXPEDITION.

_Representatives of the American Committee on board_—Mr. Griscom,
American Ambassador and chairman of the Committee; Lieutenant-Commander
Belknap, U. S. Navy, Naval Attachè at Rome; Mr. William Hooper, of
Boston; Mr. H. Nelson Gay, of Boston and Rome.

_Executive Organization on board_—Lieutenant-Commander Belknap, in
charge of the expedition; Mr. Gay, in general charge of arrangement
and distribution of supplies; Mr. Hooper, recorder, treasurer of the
expedition and in charge of the afterholds.

_Assistants_—Mr. Weston R. Flint, cashier, and in charge of the
forwardhold; Mr. Wilfred Thompson, supplies accounts and records of
deliveries; Mr. John Elliott, interpreter, assistant in afterholds and
elsewhere; Mr. Robert Hale, assistant in forwardhold; Avvocato Girodana,
interpreter, clerical work and translation, assistant with handling
supplies, aide to Lieutenant-Commander Belknap.

_Medical Department_—Dr. Cesare Scelba, Chief Medical Officer, in general
charge; Dr. Guido Egidi, Dr. Paolo Alessandrini; Miss Mary H. Lawrence,
head nurse; Miss Amy Claxton, second nurse; Miss Helen M. Moir, Miss
Frances E. Nelson, Miss Emily A. Tory, Miss Mable W. Shingleton, duty
nurses; Emma Niccolucci, head of Italian women nurses; women nurses,
Schiarmi, Negri, Consolati, Manganelli, Antinori; Lanzi, head of Italian
men nurses; men nurses, Neuci, Perfetti, Tondinelli, Guardabassi,
Cascapera.

[Illustration: THE COMMITTEE OF THE “BAYERN.” COMDR. BELKNAP AND MESSRS.
HOOPER (OF BOSTON) AND GAY (OF BOSTON AND ROME).]

_Additional, not permanently with the expedition_—Mr. Earle Dodge, Jr.,
embarked at Civita Vecchia and worked industriously in the forehold
for the two days that he was on board. Mr. W. Bayard Cutting, Jr.,
American Vice-Consul at Milan, on special duty in Sicily, came on board
at Messina, and continued from that time in close co-operation with the
Committee to the great advantage of the prosecution of the work of the
expedition. Mr. Winthrop Chanler came on board at Messina and remained
until the second day at Catania, rendering very useful service for which
his experience and knowledge of general and immediate conditions in the
locality were valuable.

A few general orders were given, cautioning against the use of matches
and smoking below decks; to report when orders had been compiled with;
to apply for assistance from the ship only to the first officer or
Lieutenant-Commander Belknap and the like. Simple arrangements were drawn
up and posted also for stations for “Fire and Abandon Ship.”

Immediately on getting under way to Civita Vecchia, the work of arranging
our supplies began, so that we might know what, how much, and where to
lay our hands on everything. Fortunately, good weather favored us; the
work continued in the forehold until 10 P. M. on Thursday, and went on
all over the ship next day, so that by 4 P. M., when Messina was sighted,
we were in all respects ready.

Only a few hours from Civita Vecchia we narrowly missed a serious
handicap, Mr. Gay having a bad fall in the hold, breaking a rib. The
loss of one who combined the best knowledge of what was included in our
outfit, with tireless energy in getting it systematized, would have
imposed a delay very unpleasant to contemplate, but, happily, Mr. Gay was
the only sufferer by this accident, as he kept at work the same as before.


RELIEF FACILITIES.

Summarizing, the _Bayern’s_ relief facilities were:

1. Immediately available for sick or wounded, 105 berths; additional
berthing space available under proper shelter, 55 berths—total
accommodations suitable for sick with comfort, 160 berths.

2. Supplies, in considerable quantity, of clothing of all kinds, shoes,
blankets, sheeting, provisions, cooking and table utensils, picks,
shovels, tools, oil stoves and fuel, lanterns, candles, matches, cordage,
tenting canvas, chocolate, tobacco, and many other miscellaneous articles.

3. Money for relief distribution, amounting to 150,000 lire.

4. Accommodation for 1,000 steerage passengers.


MESSINA.

Sailing from Civita Vecchia at 4.07 P. M. Thursday, the _Bayern_ arrived
at Messina at 5 P. M. Friday, flying the American Ensign at the fore, the
Red Cross on the triatic stay between foremast and funnel, and the German
merchant flag aft. As we stood in, international signal was made “Have on
board American Ambassador.”

The ship was boarded by an officer from the captain of the port’s office,
to whom was given a detailed statement of supplies available.

About 9 P. M. General Mazza, in chief command of the military forces in
the Straits, having returned to his headquarters on board the steamer
_Duca Di Genova_, the American Ambassador, accompanied by Vice-Consul
Lupton; Lieutenant-Commander Belknap, U. S. N.; Major Landis, U. S. N.,
and Mr. Elliott, as interpreter, visited the General, explaining the
nature of the expedition, its approval by the King of Italy and the
readiness of everything on board for disposal as General Mazza might
direct. General Mazza expressed his warm appreciation of the offer and
the spirit that had prompted it, and recommended that the ship proceed
to Catania and Palermo, possibly also to Syracuse as these places
had received many sick, wounded, and refugees, but so far no help in
proportion to their needs. At Messina the situation was well in hand, and
supplies were already available, sufficient for all requirements.

The next day, Saturday, the Ambassador and others of the expedition
visited Messina, and during the course of the day landed several
boatloads of supplies for the American Consulate’s distribution there.
The sum of 1,000 lire was also given to the archbishop.

At nine o’clock the U. S. S. _Connecticut_, flagship of Rear-Admiral C.
S. Sperry, U. S. Navy, Commander-in-Chief of the U. S. Atlantic Fleet,
came in and anchored. After a conference between the Ambassador and
Admiral Sperry, it was decided that the _Bayern_ and the _Culgoa_ should
co-operate in relief work along the coast. The Ambassador, accompanied by
Mr. Dodge, then quitted the _Bayern_, embarked in the _Connecticut_, and
sailed in her at 5 P. M. for Naples.

Mr. Cutting and Mr. Chanler here joined the _Bayern_.

[Illustration: DIGGING IN RUINS FOR BODIES AT MESSINA.

(Photo by S. H. Chapman.)]

About the time of the _Connecticut’s_ sailing, staff officers from
General Mazza and Rear-Admiral Viale, Senior Italian Naval Officer
present, called on board the _Yankton_ and _Culgoa_ to state
that supplies would be welcome at Reggio as well as at Catania.
Lieutenant-Commander Patton and I, therefore, arranged to proceed to
Reggio together next morning; and for easier communication between us,
he lent the _Bayern_ a signalman and two wireless operators from the
_Culgoa_, who rigged up a small improvised wireless set over night.


REGGIO.

Sunday morning we left Messina about seven o’clock, reaching Reggio di
Calabria about 8.30. We were unable to see General Mazzitelli, as he was
ill, but Captain Cagni, commanding the _Napoli_, Senior Italian Naval
Officer present, received us in his stead. He showed much satisfaction in
having our supplies to draw upon, especially for women’s and children’s
clothing, shoes, oil stoves, tent canvas, cooking and table utensils,
tools and nails. About four-fifth of the _Napoli’s_ crew had been sent
away on relieving expeditions among the outlying small villages, and our
supplies were in good time for use in a second expedition which was being
prepared.

There were no sick or wounded needing to be cared for on board, nor any
refugees to be sent; but we were cordially thanked for our offer of
these facilities, as well as for our supplies. The latter made about 25
tons, in four boatloads, which we were able to transfer that afternoon.
The _Bayern_ then returned to anchor over night at Messina, there being
no good berth at Reggio; the _Culgoa_ remained off Reggio to deliver
provisions next day.

[Illustration: RED CROSS CAMP AT REGGIO.

(Photo by S. H. Chapman.)]


CATANIA.

Monday at 6 P. M. we left Messina for Catania, arriving at 10.30 A. M. We
were immediately boarded by an officer from the battleship _Garibaldi_,
with the compliments of Rear-Admiral Gagliardi, commanding the second
division of the Naval Force of the Mediterranean. The Admiral offered us
any assistance we might need; and when I made an official visit to him
that afternoon he inquired with much interest about all that could be
learned of the situation at Messina and Reggio, and about the expedition.
He very kindly made it well understood that we had only to ask to obtain
any assistance at his disposal—an offer that I was glad to avail of,
for men to assist with handling supplies, transmission of telegrams by
wireless, and service of boats. The Admiral returned the visit next day,
inspected the ship with evident interest, and expressed his approval of
her organization and arrangements, especially in the medical department.

As soon as the _Bayern_ was moored inside the mole of Catania harbor,
Lieutenant-Commander Belknap, accompanied by Vice-Consul Cutting, Dr.
Scelba and Avvocato Giordana, called upon the Prefect Commendatore P.
Ferri and the Sindaco, Signor S. Consoli, placing the ship and her
equipment entirely at their disposal. We were welcomed and thanked
with the greatest cordiality, and in the afternoon, when the Sindaco,
with Madame Ferri, Baronessa Zapalla, and a number of other ladies and
gentlemen prominent in relief work came on board, he made a speech of
thanks, and presented the following letter:

                                          Catania, January 11, 1909.

    COMMUNE DI CATANIA:

    With pleasure I express to you, gentlemen, and to all the
    expedition of the American Red Cross, embarked on board the S.
    S. _Bayern_, the heartiest thanks of the population of Catania
    and of the refugees and wounded who have found here a shelter,
    for your generous offer of medicines, clothes, food, etc.

    The relief brought by you will be effective to lessen the
    sufferings of so many wretched people, who have been deprived
    in a few moments of their relatives, of their beloved native
    town, and of every possession.

    With esteemed consideration,

                                                         The Mayor,
                                                         S. CONSOLI.

    To Signor Reginald Rowan Belknap, Lieutenant-Commander, Naval
    Attachè to the Embassy of the United States of America in Rome.

To this the following reply was sent, both letters being published in the
local papers:

                      Expedition of the American Red Cross,
                      Steamship _Bayern_, Catania, January 12, 1909.

    TO THE MAYOR OF CATANIA:

    In response to your gracious letter conveying the thanks
    of the citizens of Catania for our offer of assistance, I
    have the honor, in the name of His Excellency the American
    Ambassador, and also of the American Red Cross, to express to
    you the sincere friendship and heartfelt sympathy which all
    our countrymen feel for this beautiful land and its people,
    especially in this time of sorrow.

    To have relieved in some small measure the distressing needs of
    those we love is a cherished privilege, and the gratitude which
    you have sent to the United States will carry there widespread
    thankfulness.

    With distinguished consideration,

                                                      R. R. BELKNAP.

    Lieutenant-Commander, Naval Attachè to the American Embassy,
    Rome, in charge of the American Red Cross Expedition.

The party which came on board that afternoon inspected the ship and were
much pleased with the comfortable, spacious arrangements for the sick,
and our outfit and arrangement of supplies. Some light refreshments
were served on deck, causing one of the ladies to remark that they were
enjoying this visit very much, their first respite since the earthquake.

The Prefect was unable to come on board the day of our arrival, but he
did come Tuesday morning. I took this occasion to inquire particularly
about our taking refugees, to which he replied in the negative, saying
that the refugees did not wish to leave Sicily, as a rule, and that the
authorities and people at large did not wish to have them go. Accordingly
it was definitely determined that we should take none; and the order was
shortly given to knock down the steerage bunks, and add the lumber to
that which we were going to land at Reggio.

We discharged at Catania the greater part of our cargo, finding that
large quantities of our supplies would be put to immediate use. Medical
supplies, moderate amounts of clothing, milk and provisions were given
direct to the three hospitals, but the bulk of what was landed was
turned over to the Ladies’ Committee, in charge of clothing distribution,
and provisions, medical and miscellaneous supplies to the Municipal
Committee, as requested by the authorities. Then, as it was believed that
a small amount of ready money could be more conveniently applied by the
authorities concerned than by anyone else, Mr. Hooper, the treasurer,
delivered 1,000 lire to each of the hospitals; 5,000 to Madame Ferri for
application to individual cases needing relief other than an immediate
supply of clothing and food, and 25,000 to the Prefect for disposition at
the discretion of the committees having the relief work in hand.

[Illustration: A RUINED STREET IN REGGIO.

(Photo by S. H. Chapman.)]

Tuesday morning a committee, consisting of Miss Mabel Hill, Fraulein
Gasser, Mr. Charles King Wood and Mr. Harry Bowdoin, came on board from
Giardini and Taormina with a letter from the Mayor of Giardini. Upon
their representation of conditions in their district, work already done
and still in hand, and cases of need still unrelieved, about twenty
tons of clothing, shoes, blankets, provisions, medical dressings and
miscellaneous articles were given into their care for shipment by rail,
and 10,000 lire to be spent at the discretion of this committee in their
work at these two places. We also sent, with this shipment, all clean bed
linen remaining on board, since it was now evident that our reserve for
patients would not be required.

The services of a nurse were also wanted at Taormina and Giardini, and
Miss Claxton was sent with this party on their return there, with the
understanding that the American Red Cross Committee would be responsible
for Miss Claxton’s expenses and her return to Rome. A letter has since
been received from Miss Claxton, saying that she is engaged as a district
or visiting nurse, and that all the supplies sent have proved very useful.

A further sum of 10,000 lire was entrusted to Messrs. Kin and Bowdoin,
both of them members of the American Red Cross, who undertook to arrange
for the expenditure of this money for the relief of the small villages
outside of Giardini and Taormina, between there and Messina, and to
account for it to the American Red Cross through the American Ambassador.

In response to an appeal from Acireale, Mr. Gay made a personal visit
among the relief workers there, after which some clothing and other
supplies and 5,000 lire were delivered to them. To the Little Sisters
of the Poor 1,000 lire were given for their immediate assistance. A few
bundles of clothing were sent by rail to Messina, in care of Mr. Chanler,
in response to a wireless message from the U. S. S. _Yankton_. There were
several other cases acted on at Catania, as shown more in detail in the
secretary’s report.

While lying at Catania, knowing that lumber was needed at Reggio, Mr.
Flint was sent ashore on Wednesday morning to buy such quantity as we
could get on board that day. Lighterage facilities were very scarce,
as many steamers were in the harbor discharging; but by the persistent
efforts of the German Vice-Consul, Mr. Jacob Peratoner, who very kindly
devoted almost his entire day in our behalf, we succeeded in getting
on board enough lumber to build 25 houses, 13 × 13 feet, complete with
floors.

On Wednesday afternoon Madame Ferri, escorted by Marchese di San Juliano
in his automobile, took Lieutenant-Commander Belknap, Dr. Scelba,
Avvocato Giordana and Mr. Elliott on a tour of the hospitals and some of
the refuges, in one of which alone 780 were then quartered. By this date,
of course, sixteen days after the earthquake, all was in good order and
organization as far as circumstances and available means would permit; to
see so much suffering and misery, among people of all conditions of life
formerly, was extremely affecting; but also it was impressive to note how
much had been done for their needs and comfort, and particularly to mark
the affectionate gratitude which these poor refugees demonstrated for
their benefactress, who seemed to have become familiar with the details
of nearly every case.

The Prefect and Admiral Gagliardi, after we had sailed the next morning,
united in sending us a farewell message by wireless, as follows:

    SIGNOR REGINALD ROWAN BELKNAP, On board _Bayern_, Reggio,
    Calabria.

    With our hearts still vibrating with gratitude and admiration
    for the work of fraternal solidarity and beneficience
    accomplished by you, Mr. Commandant, together with your
    representatives of the American Red Cross, we again repeat to
    you all, in the name of the Province and the King’s Government,
    our heartfelt thanks. To all the gentlemen on board the
    _Bayern_ we send good wishes and greetings.

                                                       PREFECT FERRI
                                                       GAGLIARDI.

To this the following reply was sent by telegraph to Prefect Ferri, and
by letter to Admiral Gagliardi:

    To COMMENDATORE FERRI, Prefect of Catania, and REAR ADMIRAL
    GAGLIARDI, Commanding the Second Division of the Naval Force of
    the Mediterranean:

    Your message sent me at Reggio by wireless telegraph has been
    received, and I will have the honor to deliver it to His
    Excellency the American Ambassador at Rome, for communication
    to the United States Government and to the Red Cross of
    America.

    The warmth of your appreciation of our efforts makes a deep
    impression in our hearts. To be so cordially associated with
    the noble work of the King’s Government and the devoted people
    of the Province of Catania is an honor that will always be
    remembered with pride and affection.

    With distinguished consideration,

                                                      R. R. BELKNAP,

    Lieutenant-Commander U. S. Navy, Naval Attachè at the American
    Embassy, Rome, in charge of the American Red Cross Expedition.

Although no refugees were to be sent by us, we were asked, and properly
authorized by the Prefect, to take twenty-four orphan children, under
charge of a carabinieri, to Genoa for delivery there to representatives
of the Provincial Committee of the Province of Como, where we understood
the children were to be placed in families. The Little Sisters of
the Poor also were glad to avail themselves of the opportunity for
transportation of six of their number, who had been hurt in the
earthquake or were completely worn out with their subsequent efforts,
and eleven old men and one old woman in their charge, all bound for Rome
or Naples. There was, besides, an Italian woman with three children,
wife of a naturalized American citizen in the United States, who was to
be taken to Genoa. All these were on board by the time our dinner was
over, so that we could have the pleasure of showing our departing guests
the children, all bathed and put into fresh beds, still wide awake,
bright-eyed and happy in the novelty of their surroundings. I am glad to
say that the children continue happy, as also the old people, throughout
the voyage. They were fitted out with additional clothing purchased
at Palermo, and on arrival of the steamer at Genoa they were safely
delivered to the proper authorities.

After spending the first day in Catania, Mr. Cutting went by rail to
Syracuse, being requested by the Committee to look into conditions there,
inform us as to needs, and offer our facilities to the authorities.
During the succeeding day, however, the many demands made upon us at
Catania and from the surrounding country compelled us to abandon the
idea of going to Syracuse, as the amount of supplies remaining to be
disposed of would be too small to warrant the extra day’s steamer charges
for such a detour. Mr. Cutting was informed of this change of plan by
telephone, and tactfully explained it to the authorities of Syracuse; and
upon his return on board the _Bayern_ Wednesday evening the Committee
allotted 35,000 lire to Syracuse, distributed according to Mr. Cutting’s
recommendation.

Leaving Catania at 4 A. M. we arrived at Reggio about 8.30, finding the
U. S. S. _Culgoa_ there, just returned from a coastwise trip, relieving
small villages. Lieutenant-Commander Patton and I again called together
upon General Mazzitelli and Captain Cagni, who said they had use for
lumber, women’s and children’s clothing, shoes and some provisions.

We lost a few hours off Reggio trying to find a suitable anchorage from
which we could discharge our lumber by rafting it down to leeward into
the small artificial harbor, there being no lighter available; but the
_Bayern_ was too long and too light, so we remained underway while
discharging on this day. This delay did not make any ultimate delay of
our movements, however. We discharged a boatload of supplies for the
_Culgoa_ to deliver at Messina, and two boatloads for Reggio, then ran
over to Messina ourselves for the night, arriving about eight o’clock.

The battleship _Illinois_ had arrived at Messina during the afternoon,
Captain J. M. Bowyer, U. S. Navy, commanding. He kindly sent a steam
launch alongside, and I went on board, with Mr. Cutting and Dr. Scelba.
There we found Major Landis, our military attachè, who had a telegram
from Mr. Bishop, the American Consul at Palermo, desiring that the
_Bayern_ visit that port. Captain Bowyer undertook to send a reply for
us, that we would arrive probably Saturday morning.

We obtained all the available shoes from the _Illinois_, 201 pairs of
substantial quality. At the same time a package of tetanus antitoxin,
which had been brought down from Rome by Mr. Robert Winthrop, was
delivered, and on the advice of Dr. Scelba was divided between Messina
and Catania.

We also on this day returned to the _Culgoa_ the three men lent to us,
as we expected to part company indefinitely. These men had behaved with
credit to themselves and their service were generally helpful, and had
won the good will of everyone.

Friday morning we got underway at six o’clock and by 8.30 were fast to
a buoy off Reggio and discharging cargo. Our best day’s work was done
here—not in amount delivered, but in the steady industry of all employed.
Four boats were filled with supplies and towed over to the depot steamer,
and later, as no men might be available to discharge them before dark,
a working party of men nurses and stewards was sent to discharge them.
Meantime the lumber was got out, each slingful lashed both ends before
lowering over the side; then six or eight such slingfuls were made up
into a raft and towed by our steam launch to a point about one-third of
a mile distant, to windward of the place on the beach where the lumber
was wanted; then the tow was cast off and it drifted ashore. This was a
slow process, as our steamer was small and unsuited to open water, but
by steady work and no mishaps we finished and left for Messina, the ship
herself towing the last raft of lumber.


PALERMO.

Arriving at Messina about 8.30, we found another telegram from the Consul
at Palermo. After visiting the _Illinois_ again, we sailed for Palermo at
10.30 P. M.

We arrived at Palermo about 9.30 Saturday morning. The captain of the
port sent an officer on board the _Bayern_ with the following message:

    The captain of the port thanks Captain Belknap for the
    sentiments of brotherhood and humanity which have brought him
    here, to give aid to those who have just escaped from the
    disastrous earthquake.

The American Consul, Mr. Bishop, then took the Committee,
Lieutenant-Commander Belknap, Mr. Hooper, Mr. Gay, Vice-Consul Cutting,
Avvocato Giordana and Mr. Flint to call upon the Prefect, with whom we
found the Commissario Regio. Our remaining resources were placed at
the disposal of the authorities, who accepted them with warm thanks
and appreciation of our coming to Palermo with assistance. From the
prefectura we were then escorted to the municipal palace by the
Commissario Regio, Commandatore Avvocato Gennaro Bladier, who conducted
us to his reception-room, where the necessary arrangements were made
for the transfer of our remaining supplies. He took steps to have our
discharging expedited so that our intended sailing that evening might not
be delayed.

We delivered at Palermo 1,200 mattresses and about 7,000 rations, leaving
nothing remaining on board that could be disposed of; also 20,000 lire
to the Municipal Committee and 10,000 for distribution by the American
Consul.

In the afternoon, the Commissario Regio came on board, to return our
visit and inspect our ship, bringing the following letter, to which I
replied orally, stating that I would have the honor to bring it to the
attention of the American Ambassador:

                                  Cabinet of the Commissario Regio,
                                  City of Palermo, January 15, 1909.

    In the name of the city of the Committee I have the honor to
    represent, I accomplish the duty, heartfelt, of expressing to
    you a great many thanks for your generous offer of 20,000 lire
    and of food and mattresses, made through you by the American
    Ambassador for the benefit of the unfortunate refugees.

    Messina, Sicily and Italy, in this tragic hour of disaster,
    feel an infinite sense of emotion before the universal
    spectacle of nobility and human kindness, before the common
    impulse that moves, in aid of so many sufferers from the
    reckless violence of nature, the generous, munificent souls of
    the world.

    I beg, therefore, to ask you to be the bearer of our intense
    feeling to the illustrious American Ambassador, and to the
    American citizens, to whose magnanimous work will always be
    united the undying gratitude of this people.

    Please accept, Illustrious Sir, on this solemn occasion, the
    highest expression of my consideration.

                                             The Royal Commissioner,
                                             BLADIER.

    To Captain Reginald Rowan Belknap, Naval Attachè to the Embassy
    of the United States of America.


RETURN OF THE “BAYERN.”

With regret that we might not prolong our stay, we sailed as soon as the
last slingful was over the side, at 7 P. M., arriving at Civita Vecchia
at 4 P. M. the next day, Sunday, January 17, after an absence of just ten
days.

At Civita Vecchia we received a hearty welcome from the Sub-Prefect;
Sindaco, captain of the port: Mr. Page and Mr. Pasigli, of the Committee;
Mr. and Mrs. Billings, of Massachusetts, and Mr. Anniser, the Lloyd
agent. There was time enough to transfer our aged charges ashore
comfortably, with the expedition and baggage, to take the six o’clock
train for Rome.

Drs. Egidi and Alessandrini, two Italian women and two men nurses
remained on board to care for the twenty-four orphans until they were
given over into other hands. Everything of our cargo, and more besides,
taken from the ship, had been distributed, as originally intended.

Written instructions were given Dr. Egidi, who was left in charge of
our party remaining on board, covering the delivering of children and
return of the doctors and nurses to Rome. Written instructions were also
given to the captain of the _Bayern_ to proceed to Genoa, and releasing
the vessel there upon the delivery of the children into proper hands.
Telegrams were sent to the American Consul-General and to the Quæstor
at Genoa, informing of the coming of the ship with persons for them to
receive. The American Ensign and the Red Cross were then hauled down, at
5.15 P. M., and I came ashore with the captain of the port.

The party were greeted at the landing by Mr. and Mrs. Griscom,
accompanied by Mr. Dodge, while a large crowd of the people of Civita
Vecchia were gathered outside the gates. Carriages were provided by the
municipality to convey the party to the station, with free passage by
rail to Rome, the Italian officials and people favoring us with every
kind wish. The trip to Rome was without incident.

Tuesday afternoon, the 19th inst., Drs. Egidi and Alessandrini reported
their return in person and their duty completed, bringing a receipt
from the Quæstor in Genoa for the twenty-four orphans. This receipt was
turned over by me to the secretary. Dr. Egidi also reported that the
American Consul-General at Genoa had taken charge of the woman with three
children, bound for America to join her husband. A letter concerning her
case had been written the Consul-General by Mr. Cutting. The active work
of the relief ship may therefore be regarded as completed.

[Illustration: AMBULANCE OF ITALIAN RED CROSS IN NAPLES.

(Photo by S. H. Chapman.)]

Before closing this report I take the opportunity as executive head of
the expedition to express my appreciation of the admirable manner in
which the members, individually and collectively, performed their duties.
Perfect harmony prevailed throughout; there were no complaints, no
questioning of orders, no difficulties of any kind. If fatigue was felt
by anyone, it was not mentioned until after working hours.


DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLIES AND MONEY BY “BAYERN.”

The American Red Cross Relief Ship _Bayern_, leaving Civita Vecchia on
January 7 and returning to that port on the 17th, distributed 115,500
lire in cash, and supplies to the value of 230,000 lire.


DISTRIBUTION OF CASH.

30,000 lire to the Prefect of Catania (5,000 to be distributed at the
discretion of Madame Ferri), 30,000 to the hospitals of Catania, 1,000 to
the Little Sisters of the Poor of Catania, 35,000 to Syracuse, 5,000 to
Acireale, 4,000 to Taormina, 6,000 to Giardini, 10,000 for distribution
among small villages outside of Taormina du Giardini, towards Messina,
1,000 to Archbishop of Messina, 20,500 to Palermo.


KIND AND QUANTITY OF SUPPLIES.

2,000 metres tent canvas, 4,500 woolen blankets, 250 sheets, 1,400 metres
of sheeting, 1,230 woolen shawls, 2,130 overcoats, ulsters and capes,
1,570 pairs of shoes, 2,100 suits of clothes for men and boys, 3,500
pairs of stockings, 350 skirts, 5,200 metres of dress goods and other
cloth, 5,000 pieces of underwear, 700 shirts and blouses, 300 pairs
pantaloons, 1,400 hats and caps, 5,000 kilograms flour, 20,000 galletti
(hard biscuit), 8,000 kilograms potatoes, 6,800 kilograms macaroni,
3,180 tins of preserved meat, 60 cases of sterilized milk (50 quarts per
case), 1,200 litres olive oil, 530 litres marsala, 210 litres cognac,
etc., 1,350 kilograms cheese, 1,000 kilograms dried fish, 351 kilograms
tobacco, 530 kilograms sausage, 1,225 kilograms of sardines, etc., 550
kilograms lard, 4,000 kilograms beans, 700 shovels, 700 picks, 300
galvanized iron buckets, 1,700 kilograms of rope, assorted size, 100
saws, 10 petroleum stoves, 50 cases petroleum, 1 ton candles, 2,000 cakes
soap, cooking utensils, tableware, miscellaneous tools, matches in large
quantities, 27 cases of medical supplies, 1,200 mattresses stripped from
the bunks of the _Bayern_, 350 sheets and pillow cases, 230 coverlets.

At Catania lumber sufficient for the construction of 25 houses (13 × 13
feet, including flooring) was purchased, loaded on board the _Bayern_,
and delivered to the Italian authorities at Reggio.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Lieutenant-Commander Belknap commends in the highest terms the work
done by all the members of this Red Cross Relief Expedition, including
Drs. Bastinelli, Scelba, Egidi and Alessandrini, the nurses, Avvocato
Girodana, Messrs. Hooper, Gay, Cutting, Flint, Captain Mitzlaff, the
other officers and the crew of the Bayern and Mr. Anniser, the North
German Lloyd agent at Rome, for his personal assistance. The Navigazione
Generale Italiana also rendered much assistance at Civita Vecchia.
To all of these the American Red Cross extends its hearty thanks and
appreciation of their valuable aid in this relief expedition._—EDITOR.




OTHER MEASURES OF AMERICAN RED CROSS RELIEF


Besides the contributions to the Italian Red Cross, the sending of a
Special Representative—Mr. Bayard Cutting—the providing of the Relief
Ship, the maintenance of the Agricultural Orphanage Colony, the purchase
of materials for some six hundred houses and the construction of these
houses and those furnished by the United States Government, the American
Red Cross has sent to Mr. Griscom, our Ambassador at Rome, $20,000 for
Calabrian relief and $50,000 to be used at his discretion in conjunction
with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Griscom says:

“After consultation, I asked him to appoint an Italian Committee to do
rehabilitation work on the lines we adopted at Chelsea. He appointed
his wife Chairman, and with her Countess Taverna, wife of the President
of the Italian Red Cross; the Duke of Teuanova, one of the largest
land owners in Sicily; the Marquis of San Fernando, one of the largest
land owners in Calabria, and Mr. Teneraani, the head of the principal
charities of Rome. This is a very strong Committee, and they are doing
splendid work—acting rapidly and efficiently. The Committee calls itself
‘Comitato Offerto Americano,’ a ‘Committee of American Offerings.’ This
Committee operates wherever they find or hear of deserving refugees,
particularly professional men, and a considerable portion of this money
is spent at the scene of the disaster as well as in Rome, Naples, etc.”

From the Calabrian mountain villages came urgent appeals for help, so Mr.
Griscom—

“Sent Mr. Nelson Gay, who has lived in Italy for some years, to make a
tour of Calabria, and he was accompanied by an officer of the General
Staff. He had a wonderful trip and his report is the basis of our
present operations. As he went along he telegraphed me his needs and his
requisitions were filled in Rome or from France. The majority of his
requests were complied with and the goods delivered to him and to the
Generals indicated by him in Calabria within forty-eight hours after
the receipt of his telegram. This includes the twenty-four hour railway
haul, so you see we have our system of operations fairly perfected. The
Director-General of Italian Railways gives our shipments the right of way
over everything. After Mr. Gay had been there a few days with General
Parditi at Palmi, Calabria, the General telegraphed his appreciation of
what had been done there to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of War.
Mr. Gay visited about forty towns in Calabria, including the highest and
most inaccessible villages. To some he brought the first succor since the
earthquake.

“I am now sending Mr. Winthrop Chanler, who is accompanied by four or
five young Italian noblemen, to Calabria to carry out the most elaborate
piece of work yet projected. We are to rebuild one whole town—Gallina.
Calabria—about three hundred wooden houses, and to deliver and build
three hundred other houses of lighter construction in the highest towns
of the Calabrian Mountains. We work through the military authorities and
at their request, but we conduct the work ourselves. In the meantime
our young Italians will use our money to rehabilitate the inhabitants
in their trades and professions, under Mr. Chanter’s direction. We
are buying a shipload of lumber very cheaply in Naples and sending it
ourselves to the spot. This is the use I am making of the last $20,000
the Red Cross has entrusted to me. From Gay’s report three hundred houses
are needed, at about $100 a house, which will make $30,000. I have the
recent grant of $20,000 and the unexpended balance from the Relief Ship
appropriation is $17,000, making a total of $37,000. This leaves $7,000
for expenses of hospitals, etc. These operations will all be done in
the name of the American Red Cross. Mr. Chanler will lay out the town,
establish police and sanitary regulations and hurry the building in
accordance with a plan I have outlined. I am sending down a young Italian
doctor to establish a little hospital and keep the place sanitary. We
work through the military authorities, who supply the carpenters and
laborers except when we employ people for the sake of giving them work.
The rehabilitation is to go on while the houses go up and the young
Italians, with Mr. Chanler, are especially to do this work. They are
to search out the most deserving merchants and give them a start. I
sincerely hope this project of mine will appeal to the Red Cross as
it does to the Italian people. If a small part of my expectations are
realized the money will be well spent. I may say here that the people
in the earthquake zone have now plenty to eat and are clothed so that
the greatest remaining need is shelter. They are dying from cold and its
consequences—pneumonia, bronchitis, consumption, etc. The wood we are
sending from America is a drop in a bucket. Mr. Gay reports that the
military estimates of 600,000 homeless people are not exaggerated. It
would take $12,000,000 to provide them with cheapest temporary houses,
and the Italians have not this amount to dispose of. In the meantime
people are living in half-ruined homes in imminent peril of being killed
by any little earthquake, and the earth continues to quake frequently.
Our new work begins in two days and will take a month or two.”

This letter was written February 21st. In referring to the Orphanage
Colony, Mr. Griscom says:

“Yesterday the Queen sent for me a second time to reiterate her thanks.”

She expressed her deep interest in the American Red Cross and desired to
learn more about the Society.

In a previous letter Mr. Griscom, whose splendid work has done so much to
render Red Cross contributions of use, says in conclusion:

“I may say personally, I have had the most valuable and interesting
experience of my lifetime; and when I return to the United States I will
become one of the most loyal supporters in the Red Cross work in America.”




ITALIAN RELIEF NOTES


MISS DAVIS AT SYRACUSE.

All reports and private letters received by the American Red Cross from
the scene of disaster speak in the very highest terms of the work done
at Syracuse by Miss Katherine B. Davis, who happened to be in Sicily at
the time of the earthquake. Speaking of her work in private letters, Miss
Davis says:

“Of course, you know what the papers have told of the terrible disaster
to the towns along the Straits of Messina. I was at Girgenti the morning
of the shock. It was strong enough to wake me, but it was not till
thirty hours later that I, with the English ladies with whom I was
traveling, heard of the disaster. A priest with the Red Cross badge got
into a compartment on the train and told us.

“Yesterday and today a Russian and an English warship have brought here
six hundred of the wounded and more are expected tomorrow. It is like
what it must be after a battle. Many of them are horribly mutilated.
There are no hospital accommodations, and you cannot buy a ready-made
garment in the town. There is only one trained nurse in town—an English
girl, who escaped in her night dress from Messina. She is a heroine and
is working day and night assisting with the amputations. I am afraid
she will break down. I was with an English woman last night who had to
have both legs amputated at one o’clock this morning. Her husband, two
children, a brother and a sister were killed. But I cannot stop to write
you tonight of the many pathetic cases I have seen. We have four thousand
refugees, one thousand of whom are seriously wounded. The German Red
Cross, of Berlin, and the Italian, from Brescia, got here on Monday of
this week, the 11th. They have taken over the barracks hospital, the
worst of all, and such a transformation! They are doing fine work, with
splendid fellows in charge. It was unspeakably horrible until they came.
After the first few days in the hospitals I found I could do better work
in helping the refugees to help themselves, and soon started the women
from Messina to making clothing.

“Fortunately, there is a sewing machine agency here, and the Mayor of
the town is of the right sort. He placed a room in the Municipio at my
disposal, and an alderman—or whatever corresponds to alderman—who speaks
some English, selected the women for me, and I pay them a franc and a
half a day. We now have sixty-eight employed, in three different places.
No ready-made garments could be purchased in the town, and the need
for clothing was extreme. I soon used up my own money and what I could
collect from people at the hotel, but, fortunately, Bayard Cutting, Jr.,
came on Wednesday, and liked the work so much that he gave me $600 from
the relief funds to pay wages, and has had me appointed the Red Cross
representative here.

“I have persuaded the Mayor to start relief work for the men, road
building or what not, he to furnish the tools and oversight, and we (the
American Red Cross) will pay the wages. We begin tomorrow. In short, I
am organizing all I can on the good Charity Organization Society plan of
making the able-bodied needy work for what they get.

“My personal impression of the situation is that the worst is yet to
come, when the temporary relief ceases.

“I shall never forget the horrors I have seen and heard, and I was not at
Messina!”


DR. METCALF AT MESSINA.

Dr. Francis Metcalf, formerly of the United States Army, who, during
the Spanish War was a surgeon on the U. S. A. Hospital Ship _Relief_,
in a personal letter written January 15th from Capii to Surgeon-General
Torney, U. S. A., says:

[Illustration: EMBARKING THE INJURED.]

[Illustration: DR. METCALF AT MESSINA.]

“Of course, I volunteered immediately to go to Reggio and Messina and
stated my former service on the _Relief_. I was accepted and was the only
American there, excepting a couple of correspondents and the vice-consul.
To avoid red tape and the questioning of orders I stuck the old insignia
(the Red Cross) on a riding suit. Technically I suppose that violated
the proprieties, but it wasn’t much of a time for technicalities and it
avoided a lot of palaver. At any rate, I didn’t discredit the corps of
which you are the head.

“Unfortunately, I was not able to do as much as I should have liked to
do. I did accomplish a little, though, more especially in the embarcation
of the wounded. They were all being carried up the longest and narrowest
sidestairs I have ever seen alongside a ship, sometimes head first, more
often with the head down and banged and jostled unmercifully. They were
lying alongside for hours, seasick and unhappy, until I tried the old
_Relief_ trick. I enlisted the aid of the ships’ officers and used a
boat fall, clearing out the small boats in short order and sending the
patients up without suffering until I had every gangway crowded. Nothing
you have read in the papers nor experienced in San Francisco can give you
an adequate idea of the situation down there. It was just one infernal
smash and not less than a hundred thousand dead at Messina alone. The
wounded were in horrible condition, as gangrene was almost universal.”


MISS BROCKIUS AT TAORMINA.

Miss Brockius, in a letter to a friend in this country, writes:

“If I wrote for hours I could not tell you of the horrors we have seen
in the last three days. During the first the long trains came in perhaps
every hour with the wounded and the dying, huddled together with the
refugees, all with that frightened look of horror in their faces. When
they thought the people were dying they would be taken off at our station
and we had arranged the waiting room into a place to receive them. When
the tables were all full they would have to go on the floor—poor, poor
people, sometimes you could hardly see for the blood that they were
human beings, and they were mangled beyond words. Some had both legs and
both arms broken, and many had not eaten for days, and their thirst was
terrible.

“We worked over one poor thing for hours, for the doctor said she had no
bones broken, and she seemed very young and strong, but she must have
been injured internally, for she died without becoming conscious. One man
was taken off here who had been in the ruins for four days, of course
with nothing to eat. He had to be fed at first with a drop of milk at a
time, and in several hours he was able to walk to the carriage. One young
fellow’s eyes were glassy with hunger, and after we had given him some
hot broth we could see that awful look go away, but, poor thing, he had
lost his memory entirely, and did not even know where he had been.

“It is so hard for us, not knowing much of the language, to tell what
they want. A poor dying soldier was begging me to let him kiss something
that was around his neck in a bag, and I couldn’t understand until a
priest told me what he wanted.

“Many were in open coal cars and, as it has rained almost constantly
since the catastrophe, the suffering must have been frightful.

“One man who went to Messina to help dig out the people told us it was
much worse than a field of battle, for there were so many children lying
there injured.”


APPRECIATION OF ITALIAN OFFICIALS.

Premier Giolitti, in speaking of the American people’s generosity, said:

“What the United States has done on this occasion is magnificent, and
shall not be forgotten. The United States stands first, outdistancing all
others in sympathy and generosity.

“Our gratitude is so great that we cannot find words in which to express
it. Besides, appreciation on our part is heightened by the fact that so
many of our compatriots have found hospitality in America.

“With us it is traditional to consider Americans, who visit Italy in such
great numbers, as our best friends, since we love their country and their
race, because of its liberal organization and its progressive principles.”

Signor Tittoni, the foreign minister, said: “Never before on any occasion
has occurred such a demonstration of sympathy as that of America. It
includes all classes and conditions from the President to the humblest
citizen. Nothing could more tightly bind together the two countries or
render their friendship closer.”


SOLIDARITY OF RED CROSS SOCIETIES.

In a letter of February 2nd to the Central Committee of the American
Red Cross from M. Ador, Vice-President of the International Red Cross
Committee of Geneva, he says:

“The large contributions received by you for the victims of the
earthquake in Sicily and Calabria are a splendid testimony of your
benevolent activity and the solidarity which unites our Societies of the
Red Cross in times of peace as in times of war.”


THE POPE’S BLESSING AND THANKS.

The following is a copy of a newspaper clipping relative to the
disbanding of the American Relief Committee, at a meeting of which Mr.
Samuel L. Parrish stated that the Pope had bestowed his blessing upon the
American Society:

    RELIEF COMMITTEE DISBANDS.

    At 4 o’clock this afternoon there was a strong shock at Reggio.
    Shocks are still occurring at Reggio and Messina.

    The American relief committee, which was organized for the
    purpose of directing the American charities in connection with
    the earthquake sufferers, has been dissolved. The Italian
    authorities have now everything well in hand.

    In cash alone the relief committee on the steamer _Bayern_
    distributed $30,000. The vast supply of provisions on board the
    steamer proved all too small for the innumerable calls made
    upon the relief party’s resources, but the distribution was
    made as widespread as possible.

    During the sitting of the committee today Samuel L. Parrish
    informed the other members that he had been received in private
    audience by the Pope, who said that he admired especially the
    exemplary generosity of the American Red Cross, and wished to
    have these sentiments conveyed to that noble institution.

    Mr. Parrish also said that, wishing to satisfy the desire of
    the Pope, he had written President-elect Taft, the President
    of the American Red Cross Society, reporting the result of the
    audience, and adding:

    “The Pope gave his blessing to the American Red Cross,
    expressing his gratitude and high appreciation of the work of
    that association.”

Mr. Parrish’s letter to the President follows:

                                             ROME, January 15, 1909.
                                             Hotel d’Europe.

    HONORABLE WILLIAM H. TAFT, President Red Cross, Washington, D.
    C.

    My Dear Mr. Taft:

    I was this morning received in audience by the Pope, to whom
    my sponsor, Monsignor Ugolini, explained in succinct form the
    generous activity of the American Red Cross in connection with
    the sufferers in the recent earthquake in Calabria and Sicily.
    The Pope then gave his blessing to the American Red Cross, and
    while expressing his gratitude and high appreciation of the
    work of the Association, desired that his benediction might be
    known to its members. In seeking to fulfill this request, I
    know of no better method than to thus simply state the fact to
    you.

                            Yours sincerely,

                                         (Signed) SAMUEL L. PARRISH.




AMERICAN RED CROSS RECEIPTS BY STATES

FOR ITALIAN EARTHQUAKE RELIEF TO MARCH 13, 1909, WITH PER CAPITA
CONTRIBUTIONS ACCORDING TO CENSUS OF 1909.


Attention is particularly invited to the remarkably generous contribution
of California.

                                                     Mills
                                                   per capita
    New York                          $316,836.57    43.53
    California                         200,996.82   135.34
    Illinois                            97,475.04    20.21
    Missouri                            40,809.42    13.13
    Connecticut                         39,459.66    43.43
    Massachusetts                       37,061.45    13.21
    New Jersey                          31,417.38    16.67
    Wisconsin                           26,934.83    13.01
    Rhode Island                        24,048.65    56.11
    Pennsylvania                        19,416.51     3.08
    District of Columbia                16,538.90    59.33
    Maryland                            16,496.16    13.88
    Ohio                                14,343.97     3.45
    Washington                          13,734.76    26.50
    Michigan                            12,450.49     5.10
    Iowa                                10,749.98     4.81
    Indiana                              9,285.00     3.68
    Utah                                 6,506.00    23.50
    Virginia                             5,892.95     3.17
    Maine                                4,269.75     6.14
    New Hampshire                        4,054.84     9.85
    Alabama                              3,907.77     2.13
    South Carolina                       3,902.32     2.91
    Texas                                2,109.68      .69
    Nebraska                             2,002.30     1.87
    Nevada                               1,955.92    46.20
    Louisiana                            1,864.00     1.34
    Montana                              1,781.71     7.32
    Minnesota                            1,777.16     1.01
    Kansas                               1,652.00     1.12
    West Virginia                        1,222.59     1.27
    Vermont                              1,153.90     3.35
    North Carolina                       1,148.35      .60
    Delaware                             1,076.00     5.82
    Arizona                                794.27     6.46
    South Dakota                           778.82     1.93
    Colorado                               653.95     1.21
    Kentucky                               407.90      .18
    Tennessee                              395.57      .19
    Oregon                                 381.67      .92
    New Mexico                             309.75     1.58
    Oklahoma                               238.00      .59
    Florida                                222.48      .42
    Georgia                                205.86      .09
    Mississippi                            123.36      .07
    Arkansas                                83.04      .06
    North Dakota                            77.00      .24
    Idaho                                   19.73      .12
    Wyoming                                 16.26      .17
    Porto Rico                               5.00
    “Anonymous,” not credited to States     11.25
    Quebec                                  10.00
    Mexico                                   5.00
    British Columbia                         1.00
    Nova Scotia                              1.00
    “Christian Herald,” New York        55,000.00
                                    -------------   ------
         Total                      $1,034,073.74




HOW NEW YORK RAISED FUNDS FOR ITALY


The experience of the New York State Branch in raising relief funds
for a considerable number of disasters shows that several simple
but indispensable things must be done in order to ensure adequate
contributions—adequate, that is to say, to the emergency needs, and,
as it will no doubt interest many Red Cross members to know what these
things are and how they have been done, a brief description of the last
appeal is offered.

When on the morning of December 29th last word came to the State
Headquarters in New York City from Mr. Magee, the national secretary,
authorizing and directing an appeal to the public for funds wherewith
to meet the needs of stricken Sicily and Calabria, the secretary of the
State Branch, Mrs. William K. Draper, and the state field agent were
with the office secretary. For such an emergency there is a recognized
program of work. The first thing to be done, of course, was to publish
the appeal. At once, within an hour, notices were sent to all of the
local newspapers. This notice stated that the American Red Cross had
appealed to the people of the United States in behalf of the earthquake
sufferers; that all funds sent to the State Treasurer, Mr. Jacob H.
Schiff, at the State Headquarters would be forwarded with the utmost
expedition through the federal state department to the Italian Red Cross,
and that all persons sending their contributions in this way would have
the fullest assurance that the money would reach the desired destination,
and would learn later from official Red Cross reports how it was spent.
Subsequently three ladies, members of the State Branch, visited all of
the newspaper offices in the city and enlisted the co-operation of the
editors in keeping before the public the function and record of the Red
Cross, and the name and address of its local treasurer. It was realized
that in order to get the best results the name and address ought to be
printed every day by the papers in a conspicuous position. Unless this
were done day after day, many persons inclined to give would forget this
detail and let the occasion pass.

The chairman of the state executive committee, Mr. Cleveland H. Dodge,
had meantime been notified. He satisfied himself by personal inquiry
that all necessary measures were being taken to give publicity to the
appeal and handle the contributions when received. The State Branch has
twenty subdivisions, and these in case of similar disasters have been
informed by letter, the small saving of time generally not justifying
the expense of telegraphing. In this important instance, however, the
chairman directed that the subdivisions should be notified by telegraph.
Within an hour or two, therefore, every subdivision secretary in the
state was advised of the appeal, and the morning papers in each locality
published it, together with the name and address of the local treasurer,
and a statement that the Red Cross, as the official emergency relief
organization, was the proper channel for the transmission of funds to
Italy. These telegraphic messages were followed by letters of formal
direction.

The Branch’s responsibilities were not discharged by these efforts.
We all know that a large portion of the public does not realize the
significance of the Red Cross, even in time of the most important
functions. Confused by the many claims on its attention, this portion
of the people hesitates as to the advisable course to take and ends
by waiting for fuller information. It was, therefore, of the greatest
assistance to the cause of practical relief that the President of the
United States, in his proclamation of the disaster, should point out
the Red Cross as the proper depository for popular contributions. When
Governors and Mayors do the same the representation is impressive and
convincing. One of the earliest acts of the Secretary of the State
Branch, therefore, was to write to Governor Hughes to request him to
follow the example of the President and direct the public to the Red
Cross, though naming the Treasurer of the State Red Cross. Communication
with the Governor’s secretary by long-distance wire followed. The
Governor readily appreciated the wisdom of the proposal and issued the
following proclamation:

    “TO THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK:

    “The calamity which has visited Southern Italy and Sicily
    must not only excite our deep sympathy with those so suddenly
    stricken, but our desire to aid in the relief of their pressing
    necessities. To this we are prompted by humane impulse and by
    our friendly interest in the people so largely represented
    among our citizens.

    “I recommend that contributions be made through the New York
    State Branch of the American National Red Cross, which is in
    communication with the Italian Red Cross and has undertaken to
    receive and forward funds offered for relief.

    “It may be hoped that the generosity of our people, which has
    had such beneficent illustration in the past, may again have
    abundant expression.

    “Given under my hand and the Privy Seal of the State at the
    Capitol in the city of Albany this thirtieth day of December,
    in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and eight.

                                        “(Signed) CHARLES E. HUGHES.

    “By the Governor:
      “ROBERT H. FULLER,
      “Secretary to the Governor.”

    “The New York State Branch of the American National Red
    Cross has offices at 500 Fifth avenue, New York City, and
    contributions may be made to its Treasurer, Mr. Jacob H.
    Schiff, there or at the address of Kuhn, Loeb & Company, 52
    William street, New York City.”

Mayor McClellan, of New York City, when similarly approached issued an
announcement, stating that the City Hall Fund then being raised would be
turned over to the Red Cross for record and transmission and this was
done.

Desirable as it is that all relief funds, however raised, should at
least be passed through the Red Cross in order to receive public and
uniform accounting and speedy transmission, the fact, nevertheless,
is that not a few associations and individuals desire to raise funds
and themselves forward them. On this account the Italians of New York
City naturally enough organized their own relief committee, with the
Italian Consul-General, Raybaudi Massiglia, and the American delegate
of the Italian Red Cross, Mr. Lionello Perera, represented on it. The
New York State Branch of the American Red Cross at once placed itself
in communication with this committee. Colonel Sanger, the President of
the New York State Branch, also at a later day paid a personal call. The
funds collected by this organization, however, were sent directly to
Italy to the Italian Red Cross, and not through the American Red Cross.
Another committee, called the American-Italian relief committee, was
organized and is still engaged in raising funds by the sale of memorial
cards. It forwards the funds direct to the Italian Red Cross.

Many benefit performances were given in opera houses, theatres and public
halls. To the managers of these performances and to the promoters of
every relief fund being raised in the city, as fast as announcement of
it was made the secretary wrote, asking that the funds collected be sent
through the Red Cross as the recognized channel for relief. In some cases
personal interviews were had with managers by the Red Cross held agent.
The desire in doing this was not, of course, to limit the generosity or
to discourage the independent collection of funds, but, as stated, to
procure a public, uniform and central accounting. Many societies acceded
to the suggestion of the Red Cross and funds collected by churches,
Sunday schools, associations, women’s clubs, schools, etc., were sent to
Italy via American Red Cross. Several bankers, who cabled contributions
direct through their own Italian correspondents, were subsequently
impressed with the wisdom of the Red Cross arrangements, and may be
depended upon to make future remittances through it.

The first relief contributions began to come within twelve hours after
the issue of the appeal, and provision had to be made for the large
amount expected. The Christmas stamp campaign was just ended; only the
accounting remained to be done, and four salaried helpers were engaged
upon this when the Italian relief contributions began to pour in. Two
of these helpers were retained to assist in handling the heavy mail. In
addition two accounting clerks were furnished for a few days by members
of the executive committee, and greatly assisted in putting the accounts
in order. All contributions were receipted for as fast as received and
were also recorded in special books. A list of all the contributions was
sent daily to all of the newspapers for publication. The papers were
also supplied daily with interesting details of donations as reported by
visitors or in letters received.

Frequent demands were made to have the Red Cross take even a more active
part in raising funds than it had assumed. Several proposals to issue
relief stamps in imitation of the Christmas stamps were not adopted for
the reason that public interest in the Italian disaster was felt to be
already so high that no devices to stimulate it further were deemed
practicable or necessary. Contributions were being received many times
the amount which any stamp issues could possibly produce. Several offers
were made to turn over theatres and public halls for the purpose of
arranging benefit performances. But these, too, had to be refused since,
of course, such work is outside of the function of the Red Cross.

The public was so profoundly moved by the press’ circumstantial accounts
of the disaster and the appeal for immediate relief that it responded
almost instantaneously. Within twelve hours of the publication of
the first appeal the mail brought the first contributions. The first
day yielded $1,115, the second day $63,917.50. The total to date is
$317,378.94.

In this amount were the contributions received by the different
subdivisions of the State. The amounts began to fall off after the first
week, but continued in considerable sums for a long time and are still
coming in. The appeal was withdrawn on February 4.


AMOUNTS COLLECTED BY SUBDIVISIONS.

    Albany County Subdivision  $ 4,500.00
    Broome County                  204.27
    Chautauqua                     301.36
    Dutchess County                616.55
    Glen Cove                      165.25
    New York County            255,701.04
    Rensselaer Co.               2,952.19
    Schenectady Co.              1,794.62
    Ulster County                  963.97
    Brooklyn                     9,278.70
    Buffalo                      1,947.74
    Columbia County                311.00
    Far Rockaway                    10.00
    Islip Township                 140.00
    Oneida County                1,323.30
    Rochester                    8,434.49
    Syracuse                     1,482.32
    Westchester County             257.68




ORIGIN OF THE CHRISTMAS STAMP


[Illustration: REPRODUCTION FROM AN ORIGINAL ENVELOPE BEARING ONE OF THE
STAMPS REFERRED TO IN THIS ARTICLE.]

“What was the origin of the Christmas Stamp?” was a question asked of Red
Cross officials scores—doubtless hundreds—of times during the holiday
season. This much we knew: On a letter received two years ago from
Denmark Mr. Jacob Riis discovered a new and unknown stamp which aroused
his curiosity. Inquiries brought its story, which he told a few months
later in “The Outlook.” Miss Emily P. Bissell, the able and energetic
secretary of the Delaware Red Cross Branch, read the story, and to the
Annual Meeting of the Red Cross in 1907 brought a design for our first
Christmas Stamp for the benefit of the anti-tuberculosis work, asking
permission that the Delaware Branch might experiment with it, and so it
had its birth in America. So successful proved the little stamp this past
year, it became a national stamp. The story of its sale and success is
told elsewhere. But what about its origin? Was it first thought of in
Denmark? No one seemed to know. Then came the Tuberculosis Congress, and
with it a report on Swedish tuberculosis work. What a surprise it was to
find in this interesting pamphlet the origin of the “Charity Stamp,” as
it is called, and still more of a surprise—a welcome surprise—to discover
that its invention is due to our own “Sanitary Commission”—that precursor
of the Red Cross. The Swedish report says: “The honor of having invented
the Charity Stamp must be given to America—that land of inventions.”
In the year 1862 the first Charity Stamps were sold at a great charity
festival in Boston. These stamps, which were called “Sanitary Fair
Stamps,” were sold to benefit the wounded in the war then proceeding
between the Northern and Southern States. The idea was not adopted in
Europe until thirty years later, when in 1892 Portugal produced the
first Charity Stamps (private stamps for the Red Cross Society). Since
then almost every country in Europe has used them and several hundred
different types have been called into existence. Some of those used
in Sweden are reproduced in this article. Learning this much from the
Swedish report, Red Cross Headquarters began an investigation of its
own, and through the librarian of the Boston Public Library was put
into communication with Mr. A. W. Batchelder, and through his courtesy
received three of the original stamps and a copy of the “American Journal
of Philately” January, 1889, which contains an interesting article on
“Stamps of the United States Sanitary Fairs,” by J. W. Scott. This
article, much of which we quote, is illustrated by a number of these
Sanitary Fair Stamps. Thanks to the kindness of Mr. Joseph S. Rich, of
New York, who loaned to the Red Cross his collection of these stamps,
and to the Surgeon-General’s office, of the United States Army, which
photographed them, we were able to reproduce illustrations of many of
these stamps.

[Illustration]

The following is taken from the American Journal of Philately, January,
1889:

“In conversing with non-philatelic friends we are frequently taunted with
the assertion that stamp collecting teaches nothing, commemorates no
important events, and, in fact, has none of those claims to recognition
which are conceded to the older science of numismatics.

“I wish to call your attention to a neglected series of United States
stamps, a collection which will fully vindicate the assertion that stamps
do commemorate national events, and in that respect are not one whit
behind their venerable competitors, coins. The stamp before us has for
its principal design the American Eagle, the bird of all others selected
by our forefathers to represent the country. It is a little unfortunate
that their knowledge of ornithology did not equal their love of freedom.
However, he is now firmly established as the national emblem, and we
must take him with all his faults and invest him with sufficient virtues
for his honorable position. The bird as represented clasps three arrows
in his right and an olive branch in his left claw; above is inscribed
‘Brooklyn Sanitary’ and below ‘Fair Postage.’ Unfortunately, the value is
not given, but, perhaps, this was intentional. The stamp is produced by
lithography, and printed in green on white paper.

“The stamp itself speaks volumes, and cannot fail to recall the time when
our country was torn by internecine strife. Three years of war had filled
our homes with mourning, our hospitals with maimed and crippled soldiers,
and exhausted the resources of the national Government to relieve their
sufferings. It was then that the ladies of the North organized fairs in
the different cities to raise money to supply the wounded with comfort
and delicacies; to send the convalescent to their homes, and to care for
the widows and orphans of the slain.

“The stamp was used in the fair held in the Academy of Music, in Montague
Street, Brooklyn, in 1864. But the spacious building was not large enough
to contain all the offerings of the people or the attractions provided
to tempt the dollars from the pockets of the thousands who filled the
various rooms, so a light wooden bridge was erected across the street to
a building on the opposite side. One of the most interesting features of
the fair was the model post-office, equipped with all the paraphernalia
which appertains to that useful institution. Here you could post a letter
to any part of the world, provided you placed the necessary number
of Uncle Sam’s stamps on it, and one of the fair’s labels to take it
to the general post-office. This was not all. If you inquired of the
innocent young lady at the window if there was a letter for you, you
would certainly get one, for one of the clever lady assistants would
write a little note while you waited, rather than have you disappointed,
and even if there should be considerable postage due on it, for you
certainly would not refuse it on that account, for it might be from your
‘Long Lost Brother,’ or some fair one who had promised to be a sister to
you.’ The Brooklyn Fair netted over $400,000.00 for the benefit of the
cause. Thus we find the Sanitary Fair Stamps were a source of innocent
amusement to the young people, while they turned in considerable cash for
the benefit of our wounded heroes, and left behind fragments of history
to be gathered up by the Bancrofts of the future, to say nothing of the
pleasure they have afforded to a generation of stamp collectors.

[Illustration]

“Of the second Brooklyn Fair I have been unable to obtain any particulars
other than that afforded by the stamp. The design consists of a foundry
cut of an eagle, with ‘Post’ above and ‘Office’ below, which is enclosed
in a rectangular frame inscribed, ‘Young Ladies of Brooklyn Bazaar’: a
figure five being in each corner. The stamp is typographed in black on
buff paper.

“Our next stamp is from New York, and is beautiful in design and
elaborate in detail. In the center we have the American Eagle with
outstretched neck and upraised wings; he is standing on the United States
shield, with flags and stars in the background and national motto above;
the inscription is artistically entwined around and reads: ‘Great Central
Fair Postage Stamp, U. S. Sanitary Commission,’ with value above and
below. The stamps are perforated and of three denominations—10 cents,
blue; 20 cents, green; 30 cents, black. They were engraved on steel by
the American Bank Note Co. This fair was held in Union Square, New York
City, where buildings were erected for the purpose. It was opened from
the latter part of April to the end of June, and was presided over by the
leaders in society, wealth and beauty of the metropolis. It netted the
enormous sum of $1,200,000.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“The next fair I call your attention to was held in the city of Albany.
Unfortunately, I have no particulars concerning it except such as relate
to the stamps. The first, of elegant design and workmanship, was prepared
by Gavit, the well-known engraver of that city, but as the time drew
near it was found impossible to have a supply printed in time; the plate
was accordingly laid aside and never used. The design is copied from
the one-cent blue carriers’ stamp, the well-known eagle on a branch to
the left, with ‘Bazaar Post Office’ above, ‘Ten Cents’ below, the whole
enclosed in a neat frame. I have seen impressions in scarlet, blue and
black on yellow surface paper. The stamp actually used was much smaller,
and produced by lithography by the same firm. The design is an eagle on
a rock, with ‘Bazaar Post Office’ above and ‘Ten Cents’ below, enclosed
in frame of single lines. It was printed in both red and black, and used
during the fair. I may add, that, as far as I know, this is the only
stamp of the series that has been counterfeited; the false stamp can
easily be recognized by the absence of shading around the eagle.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“Our next stamp takes us to Boston, where the most successful fair in the
Eastern States was held. It is interesting to note that, while all the
stamps issued in New York State took an eagle for the device, those used
in New England States were adorned with figures of soldiers or sailors.
The stamp before us represents a sailor with a wooden leg, holding the
American flag in his right hand; the vignette is crossed by the legend,
‘National Sailors’ Fair,’ on label above ‘Ten’ below ‘Cents.’ They are
produced by lithography, printed in light green and cut out by an oval
punch with scalloped edges. The fair was held in January, 1864, and
realized $147,000 for the cause.

“The next stamp on our list comes from Springfield, Mass., and I have
no information other than that supplied by the label itself. The design
represents an officer bowing to two ladies, probably welcoming them
to the fair, the figure 10, in rather large figures, being between
them; in the center above is the inscription, ‘Soldiers’ Fair,’ below,
‘Springfield, Mass.’; figure 10 in the left upper corner, ‘Chubbuck’ in
small letters in the lower right corner. It is evidently printed from
a wood block in brownish mauve ink in various shades. Not the least
interesting part of this stamp is the engraver’s name in the corner,
‘Chubbuck,’ the celebrated engraver of the Brattleboro stamp.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“The last of the series is a remembrance of Stamford, Conn. It represents
a soldier on guard, with the name of the town, ‘Stamford,’ in straight
line at top; on arched ribbon, ‘Soldiers’ Fair’; below, in straight
line, ‘Fifteen Cents.’ It is printed from a wood block in brown ink on
white paper. There were many other fairs held throughout the length and
breadth of the loyal States, but although I gave special attention to the
subject at the time, the above described are all that I have been able to
discover. The success of the post-offices at the soldiers’ fairs induced
other charitable institutions to adopt like means of raising money, among
which may be named the Children’s Aid Society, the Orthodox Jewish Fair,
etc., etc., but as they lack the national element, I do not think them
worthy of collection; but the series I have described, which is composed
of thirteen stamps, all told, and considering the small number, the
interest attached to them and the great events they commemorate is well
worthy an honored place in the collections of American philatelists.”

[Illustration]

So from their origin the Red Cross seems to have a special right to
these stamps. Their success will be apt to cause various organizations
to desire to copy this idea. This will lead to an unfortunate result.
Such repetitions will tire the public and the multiplicity of the stamps
will create a lack of interest and destroy their usefulness not only for
these other charities, but for the purpose for which they were revived
in this country—the anti-tuberculosis work of the American Red Cross. It
is to be hoped that our unfortunate American habit of “running a good
thing into the ground” will not lead in this case to the destruction of
the usefulness of the Red Cross Christmas Stamp by the overproduction of
these charity stamps.

[Illustration: SOME CHARITY STAMPS OF SWEDEN.]

                         IF YOU ARE NOT A MEMBER,
                            WOULD YOU NOT LIKE
                                 TO JOIN?

[Illustration: _THE CHALLENGE_

A CARTOON APPEARING IN THE PHILADELPHIA “LEDGER,” LAST NOVEMBER.]




FUNDS RAISED THROUGH SALE OF RED CROSS CHRISTMAS STAMPS, 1908 AND OBJECTS
TO WHICH THEY WILL BE APPLIED


The following is a brief statement of the results of last year’s stamp
sale, showing in general terms the manner in which the money raised will
be applied. The total fund secured so far as reports at hand show was
$138,244.51.

    CALIFORNIA—

    California Red Cross Branch and its Subdivisions               $4,530.49
      To be applied to Sanatoria, educational work, Day Camps,
      District Visiting Nurses, etc.

    COLORADO—

    Associated Charities of Colorado Springs                         $684.62
      To be applied to establishing free sanatorium for
      Tuberculosis patients.

    CONNECTICUT—

    Connecticut Red Cross Branch                                   $5,677.18
      To be applied to the establishment of Day Camps and for
      individual cases of tuberculosis among the poor.

    DELAWARE—

    Delaware Red Cross Branch                                      $1,152.17
      To be applied to purchasing site for dispensary and
      salaries of two nurses.

    DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—

    District of Columbia Branch                                    $2,906.06
      To be applied to maintenance of Day Camp.

    FLORIDA—

    General Federation of Women’s Clubs, Jacksonville              $1,397.23
      To be applied to an anti-tuberculosis campaign.

    GEORGIA—

    Atlanta Committee on Tuberculosis                              $1,500.00
      To be applied to salary of local efficient secretary and
      educational work of anti-tuberculosis society.

    Augusta Committee on Tuberculosis                                 $90.76
      To be applied to day camp for Richmond County.

    ILLINOIS—

    Chicago Tuberculosis Institute                                 $7,417.51
      To be applied towards support of dispensary department
      consisting of seven tuberculosis clinics and small
      appropriations towards sanatorium patients’ milk and
      egg fund, etc.

    INDIANA—

    Indiana Red Cross Branch                                       $3,831.58
      To be applied to the aid of two specific cases of
      tuberculosis and balance will probably be expended
      in aiding existing anti-tuberculosis organizations.

    IOWA—

    Burlington Red Cross Division                                    $237.00
      To be applied to Iowa tuberculosis fund.

    KANSAS—

    Kansas Red Cross Branch                                          $154.46
      To be applied to educational work.

    KENTUCKY—

    Kentucky Anti-Tuberculosis Organization, Louisville            $2,300.00
      To be applied to educational work in Louisville and
      general promotion and organization throughout the State.

    MAINE—

    Maine Red Cross Branch                                         $2,500.00
      To be applied to Day Camps, tuberculosis classes,
      educational work, State Sanitarium.

    MARYLAND—

    Maryland Association for the Prevention and Relief of
        Tuberculosis                                               $5,201.24
      To be applied in educational work and in the support
      of four special tuberculosis nurses and the special
      tuberculosis dispensary maintained by the Association.

    MASSACHUSETTS—

    Massachusetts Red Cross Branch                                $13,000.00
      To be applied to Day Sanatoria, visiting nurses, etc.

    MICHIGAN—

    Michigan Red Cross Branch                                      $3,344.17
      To be applied to the erection of a Day Camp for
      tubercular children on property owned by city.

    Civic League, Bay City                                           $394.15
      To be used in supplying nurses to tuberculosis patients.

    MINNESOTA—

    State Board of Health (St. Paul)                               $1,506.86
      To be applied to educational work of State
      Anti-Tuberculosis Association.

    MISSOURI—

    Missouri Red Cross Branch                                        $475.00
      General work of organization, education and relief.

    NEBRASKA—

    Nebraska Association for the Study and Prevention of
        Tuberculosis (Omaha)                                         $237.08
      To be applied in educational work.

    Eaton Laboratory (Lincoln)                                        $33.70
      To be applied in educational work.

    NEW HAMPSHIRE—

    New Hampshire Red Cross Branch                                 $1,300.00
      To be applied to educational work and expenses of
      traveling nurse.

    NEW JERSEY—

    New Jersey Red Cross Branch                                      $464.53
      To be applied to the support of a Red Cross tent,
      should the State have a camp for tuberculosis patients;
      otherwise the proceeds will probably be given to the New
      Jersey State Tuberculosis Society.

    L. S. Plaut & Co., Newark                                        $235.00
      Proceeds given to local Anti-Tuberculosis Society.

    Mrs. S. C. Comstock, Montclair, by authority of New Jersey
        Branch                                                       $927.25
      To be applied to support of Summer Day Camp or to
      support of patients in other camps.

    Anti-Tuberculosis Committee of the Oranges                     $2,200.55
      To be applied in Educational work.

    Plainfield Society for the Relief of Tuberculosis                 $37.35
      To be applied to general fund being raised for
      establishment of a camp.

    NEW YORK—

    New York Red Cross Branch                                     $21,174.67
      To be applied generally to maintenance of Day Camps.

    NORTH CAROLINA—

    Wilmington Red Cross Subdivision                                 $415.00
      To be applied to educational work.

    OHIO—

    Cincinnati Subdivision                                         $1,203.02
      To be applied to educational work through Cincinnati
      Anti-Tuberculosis League.

    Cleveland Subdivision                                          $8,869.96

    OKLAHOMA—

    Oklahoma City                                                    $125.00
      To be applied to diet for tuberculosis patients.

    OREGON—

    Visiting Nurse Association, Portland                           $1,606.22
      To be applied to Sanatorium, educational work and
      instructive nursing for advanced cases.

    PENNSYLVANIA—

    Pennsylvania Red Cross Branch (about)                         $17,000.00
      Purposes to which fund will be applied not yet determined.

    Dispensary Aid Society of the Tuberculosis League of
        Pittsburgh                                                 $3,976.00
      To be applied to building and maintenance of dispensary
      building on the grounds of the Tuberculosis Hospital of
      the above organization.

    Mrs. Charles L. Taylor (“Pittsburgh Red Cross Circle”)           $175.00
      Given to the Pittsburgh Tuberculosis Hospital.

    Mrs. J. E. Roys (“Bloomsburg Red Cross Circle”)                   $61.79
      To be applied to anti-tuberculosis work in Columbia County.

    RHODE ISLAND—

    Rhode Island Anti-Tuberculosis Association                     $7,763.66
      To be applied two-thirds to local work (Providence)
      and one-third to State Association, to start new
      associations, educational work, etc.

    SOUTH CAROLINA—

    South Carolina Red Cross Branch                                  $141.65
      Disposition not yet decided upon.

    TENNESSEE—

    Tuberculosis Committee. Memphis Civic League                     $637.21
      Given to city Tuberculosis Hospital.

    Federation of Women’s Clubs, Nashville                         $1,600.00
      Principally towards support of State or Municipal
      Sanatorium.

    Chattanooga Woman’s Club                                         $105.31
      Care of tuberculosis patients among the poor.

    TEXAS—

    Anti-Tuberculosis Association, Austin                            $100.00
      To be applied in educational work.

    UTAH—

    Utah Federation of Women’s Clubs                                 $265.96
      Application not yet decided.

    VIRGINIA—

    Nurses’ Committee, King’s Daughters (Petersburg)                 $164.06
      To be applied to the starting of a fund to establish
      a small hospital for local use.

    WISCONSIN—

    Visiting Nurses’ Association of Oshkosh                          $369.19
      To be applied two-thirds for visiting nurse’s salary and
      one-third for bed in sanatorium.

    Wisconsin Anti-Tuberculosis Association, Milwaukee             $8,754.88
      To be applied to educational and organizational work.

[Illustration: WOMEN AND CHILDREN AT RED CROSS DAY CAMP, NEW YORK CITY.]

[Illustration: AMUSEMENTS AT RED CROSS DAY CAMP, VANDERBILT CLINIC, NEW
YORK CITY.]

[Illustration: KITCHEN, RED CROSS DAY CAMP, ROOF VANDERBILT CLINIC, NEW
YORK CITY.]

[Illustration: MEN’S SIDE. RED CROSS DAY CAMP, ROOF VANDERBILT CLINIC,
NEW YORK CITY.]

[Illustration: MORNING EXAMINATION OF TEETH AND FINGER-NAILS OF CHILDREN.]




COMPETITION FOR 1909 CHRISTMAS STAMP DESIGN


Report of Special Committee appointed to secure competitive designs for
Red Cross Christmas Stamp for “1909” issue, Committee consisting of

    Miss Mabel T. Boardman, Washington.
    Miss Emily P. Bissell, Delaware.
    Mrs. Wm. K. Draper, New York.
    Major-General Geo. W. Davis, Washington.
    Mr. Joseph A. Steinmetz, Pennsylvania.

The Committee met at the call of the National Society at Washington
Headquarters on the morning of Tuesday, February 16th, and reported as
follows:

That the National Headquarters and all State Branches of the Red Cross be
instructed to give out information inviting the free competition for the
design for the Red Cross Christmas Stamp for 1909.

The State Secretaries and members of the Red Cross will address Art
Institutions and secure the co-operation of newspapers and magazines and
secure a wide public invitation for these designs.

There will be three main awards, consisting of the following cash prizes,
in order of merit:

    $100.00
      50.00
      25.00

and there will be chosen out of the stamp sketches submitted, not to
exceed 10 other designs to be retained by the Red Cross as their property
as a matter of record and for such designs as will be retained there will
be a cash price of $10.00 each.

The wording shall read:

                            AMERICAN RED CROSS
                                   1909
                             MERRY CHRISTMAS
                              HAPPY NEW YEAR

and the finished size of the stamp shall be ⅞ of an inch square.

It is preferred that the background of the stamp shall be “white,” and
that the emblem of the “Red Cross” shall be shown somewhere prominently
in the design. The Red Cross is a geometrical design, made up of 5 equal
squares, arranged in the form of a cross, and this proportion must be
strictly observed.

A design may be submitted in two or three colors, the ground work not
being considered as an applied color.

Artists’ designs submitted must not exceed 3 inches square, as it is
supposed that in a space 3 inches by 3 inches the design can be clearly
shown in proper detail, suitable for process reduction to size of the
finished stamp, which is ⅞ of an inch by ⅞ of an inch.

The competition closes at 6 o’clock P. M. May 15th and designs may be
submitted at any time up to that date.

There will be an Associate Committee of Artists to pass on the designs,
and it is hoped to have a public exhibition in Washington of the designs
submitted.

Designs may be submitted to Mr. Charles L. Magee, Secretary American
Red Cross, State, War and Navy Building, Washington, D. C., or to the
Secretary of any Red Cross State Branch.

The name and address of the artist must be subscribed on the back of the
design and shall not be visible anywhere in the design or on the face
thereof.

                         Respectfully submitted,

                                              JOS. A. STEINMETZ,
                                              Philadelphia, Pa.,
                                              Chairman of Stamp Committee.




SOUTH CHINA FLOOD RELIEF


The following report of the relief work in Southern China has been
received by the Red Cross:

                                   AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE,
                                   CANTON, CHINA, December 14, 1908.

    CHAS. L. MAGEE, ESQ., Secretary National Red Cross Society,
    Washington, D. C.

    Sir—Referring to your letter of August 18 and my reply of
    September 18, 1908, regarding the $2,000 sent by your Society
    through the Department of State for the relief of flood
    sufferers, I have to enclose herewith a copy of a report just
    received by me from Dr. Charles K. Edmunds, Secretary of the
    Canton Flood Relief Committee. I also enclose eight photographs
    taken in districts affected by the flood.

                   I am, sir, your obedient servant,

                                              WILLARD B. HULL,
                                              Vice-Consul in Charge.

[Note.—$2,000 in gold in exchange gave $4,519.77 Mexican dollars for
relief work.]

[Illustration: BUILDING DESTROYED AT TSING YUEN.]

[Illustration: DYKES DESTROYED ON THE NORTH RIVER.]

[Illustration: HOUSES DESTROYED BY THE HIGH WATER.]

[Illustration: DESTROYED DYKE AND HOUSES NEAR TSING YUEN, NORTH
RIVER DISTRICT.]


    REPORT TO W. B. HULL, ESQ., AMERICAN VICE-CONSUL-GENERAL IN
    CHARGE, AT CANTON, IN REGARD TO AID GIVEN TO FLOOD SUFFERERS,
    SUMMER 1908, By EXPENDITURE OF $2,000 GOLD, RECEIVED FROM THE
    AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS.

    Amount Received                                       $4,519.77 Mex.

    Disbursed in three lots:

    A. To Rev. Mr. Roach, of the Baptist Mission on
         North River, Yingtak                             $1,000.00 Mex.

    B. To Chinese Committee (per Kwong On & Co.),
         for West River Relief                             1,000.00 Mex.

    C. To Rev. W. W. Clayson, London Mission, acting
         in co-operation with Chinese Commission on
         North River, Tsing Yuen and Sham Shui Districts   2,519.77 Mex.

    The most needy districts were Yingtak and Tsing Yuen.

    The money was spent in the following manner in the three cases:

    A. Employment given to a daily average of 80-85 men and women
    and 30 cents and 25 cents (Mex.) per day, respectively, during
    some forty days, tiding them over the worst period of want
    until local officials came to aid more effectively. Work was
    the repairing of a main public highway. The Baptist Mission
    supplied the necessary road material, lime, etc. There remains
    a balance of $200 Mexican on hand.

    B. While in Yingtak it was thought wisest to give employment
    to the needy as above described; along the West River it was
    deemed best to give money direct. In this region rice and other
    foodstuffs were being sold at a reduction of 30 or 40 per cent.
    through the agency of local gentry of wealth, officials and
    the native benevolent institutions. One thousand dollars was
    then distributed through the Native General Committee from
    the United Churches of Canton, and some thousands of people
    supplied with cash to buy food at these reduced rates.

    C. In Tsing Yuen and Sham Shui Districts, Mr. Clayson
    personally assisted the Native Committee in distributing
    tickets, which were redeemable in cash at three centres, Tsing
    Yuen, Shek Kok and Sai Nam. Rather thorough investigations were
    made so as to reach the most needy, and especial attention was
    given to villages lying in from the river, which had, in fact,
    suffered most from devastation of crops, and yet had up to the
    time of this relief been least helped, because living back from
    the river they did not know how to get relief, and had few
    chances of earning any support.

    The method of distribution adopted was very laborious, but it
    is thought that it was the most satisfactory. Those wanting
    most relief were reached and given tickets, and even if they
    were too weak to go to the centre to get the money, they could
    be trusted to see that they did get it. Those helped in these
    districts were mostly widows, the blind, lame and diseased and
    aged. Two days around each centre were taken to distribute
    tickets, and one day at the centre for distribution of
    money—with which the people then bought foodstuffs at reduced
    prices from the officials or Benevolent Societies—the latter
    turning their money over and over as long as it lasted under
    this depreciating process.

    The $2,519.77 (Mexican) which our Committee gave Mr. Clayson
    was put with that of the Native Christian Committee, making a
    total of $4,610.00, which was disbursed at the three centres as
    follows: Tsing Yuen, $1,448; Shek Kok, $1,047, and in Sai Nam,
    $1,115.

    It can confidently be said that but for the timely aid this
    money made possible, several thousands of people on the verge
    of starvation would have suffered worse agony than they did.

    Our Committee wishes to offer our most sincere and appreciative
    thanks to the Red Cross Society for this timely aid, and to you
    for your kind offices in the matter.

                        Respectfully submitted,

                                                      C. K. EDMUNDS,
                                                      Secretary.

    To Hon. W. B. Hull, American Vice-Consul in Charge.

[Illustration: REFUGEES CAMPED IN MAT SHEDS ON THE HILLSIDES WAITING FOR
THE WATERS TO RECEDE.]

[Illustration: REFUGEES ON THE BANK OF THE NORTH RIVER WAITING FOR THE
BOATS OF THE RELIEF COMMITTEE.]




AN INSPIRATION

BEING THE STORY OF ST. MATTHEW’S RED CROSS HOSPITAL.

BY NELLIE OLMSTED LINCOLN.


[Illustration: ST. MATTHEWS RED CROSS GUILD HOSPITAL.]

A beautiful thought of a wise and generous woman, like a fruitful
seed, has blossomed and borne fruit in an ideal, modern hospital, just
completed and given to the people of San Mateo.

Thursday, February 11, 1909, was a red letter day in the annals of this
lovely little California town, for on that day was formally opened St.
Matthew’s Red Cross Hospital, built and equipped by Mrs. Whitelaw Reid in
memory of her mother.

It was a happy combination of circumstances that made it possible for
four officers of the Red Cross to be present at the opening: Mrs.
Whitelaw Reid, Hon. Benjamin Ide Wheeler, President of the California
Branch; Mrs. John Merrill, Vice-President, and Mrs. Thurlow McMullin,
Secretary. Addresses were made by the Rt. Rev. William T. Nichols, Bishop
of California; the Rev. N. B. W. Gallwey, rector of St. Matthew’s;
President Benjamin Ide Wheeler, of the University of California, and Mr.
Paul Pinckney, thanking the donor in the name of the people of San Mateo.

[Illustration: DINING-ROOM OF HOSPITAL.]

Two years and a half ago, immediately after the earthquake, Mrs. Reid,
feeling the great good a district nurse could do in the community, sent
from New York a nurse who could be called upon for emergency cases and
also to work among the poor. In providing for her, a house was built in
which there was a fine operating room and rooms for six patients. Other
nurses were secured, and in a short time one hundred and one cases were
cared for. It was soon found that the building was inadequate, and Mrs.
Reid immediately took steps to have it moved and on its place erected the
one just completed.

This is a charming building, with timbered and plastered exterior,
generous porches and accommodations for twenty-four patients, in three
wards and ten private rooms. The operating room is entirely in white
tiling, with an exceptionally fine light and every appliance for
the use of surgeon and nurse. Opening from it are two rooms, one a
sterilizing room with the finest of apparatus, and the other the room for
anaesthetizing. In the entrance hall is a modest bronze tablet, bearing
the date of opening and stating that the building is in memory of Jane
Templeton Mills, born August 1st, 1832, died April 26th, 1888.

The halls are wide and well lighted, and the elevator with its electric
motor can bring the patients from the lower floor to be wheeled upon the
two porches, where they can find new life in the California sunshine.
There is a special room for X-ray work, and there, as elsewhere, the
outfit is complete.

[Illustration: WARD OF ST. MATTHEWS RED CROSS GUILD HOSPITAL.]

All the nurses are graduates, Miss Sarah M. Dick, of the Cook County
Training School, being superintendent, so that the care offered patients
is of the best; and to hold and attract the highest type of nurse,
everything connected with their rooms is as dainty as the rest of the
hospital. Charming pictures in sitting room and dining room add to the
homelike appearance. All physicians of the community are urged to bring
their patients, and there is no distinction of creed—everything is
offered in the broad spirit of the Red Cross.

Several beds have been endowed. Adjacent to the main building, yet
surrounded by larger grounds of its own, stands the maternity house, in
which there are also nurses’ rooms and headquarters for the district
nurse, one of whose duties is to hold classes for anyone interested in
“first aid.”

It seems as if Mrs. Reid had thought of every detail possible to make the
gift as near perfect as a mortal may, even providing one of the purest
specimens of radium. It is her earnest hope that similar hospitals will
be erected throughout the country, so that in times of emergency they may
be ready for immediate use for Red Cross purposes.

The affairs of the Hospital are administered by a Board of representative
women consisting of Mrs. Ansel M. Easton, Vice-President; Mrs. Charles E.
Green, Treasurer; Mrs. Lewis P. Hobart, Secretary; Mrs. Ernest Coxhead,
Corresponding Secretary; Mrs. A. M. Easton, Mrs. William H. Crocker,
Miss Jennie Crocker, Mrs. Frances C. Carolan, Mrs. Walter Martin, Mrs.
Laurence Irving Scott, Mrs. William Tubbs, Mrs. E. D. Beylard, Mrs. N.
B. W. Gallwey, Mrs. J. D. Grant, Mrs. Mountford Wilson, Mrs. James Otis
Lincoln. The president is Rev. N. B. W. Gallwey, whose deep interest and
able leadership have been of inestimable assistance.

[Illustration: OPERATING-ROOM OF HOSPITAL.]

Mrs. Reid is Honorary President of the Board, and as perhaps it can be
said of no other person living, this modest, generous donor has in the
completion of this work finished a golden circle around the world of love
and service for suffering humanity, for the Philippines, Paris, London,
New York and California now share in the ministering care which she has
provided.




THE STORY OF THE RED CROSS

WAR’S AFTERMATH.


Improvised hospitals were organized in every straggling village, but by
far the largest number of wounded were brought to Castiglione. There
was an almost interminable procession of wagons, packed with officers
and soldiers—cavalrymen, infantry, artillery—all battered and bleeding,
covered with dirt and dust and blood, each jolt of the carts adding to
their suffering. Many died on the way, their bodies being transferred
from the wagons to the roadside, and left there for others to bury. Such
were reported as “missing.”

From Castiglione many of the wounded were sent on to hospitals in other
Lombard towns for regular treatment and necessary amputations. As the
means of transportation were very limited, long delays were caused and
the overcrowding baffles description. The whole city became one vast
improvised hospital. The convents, the barracks, the churches and the
private houses were filled with wounded. Others were placed on straw in
the open courts and parks, with hastily constructed roofs of planks and
cloth. The citizens of the town were seen running from street to street,
seeking doctors for their suffering guests. Later others came and went
with dejected air, begging for assistance to remove the dead bodies, with
which they knew not what to do. All the physicians in the place were
inadequate and most of the military surgeons were forced to leave with
their armies.

[Illustration: NAPOLEON III.]

By Saturday following the battle the wounded who had been assembled in
the city became so numerous that the attempt to cope with the attention
they required became impossible, and the most terrible scenes followed.
There was food and water, but the wounded died from hunger and thirst,
for there were not hands enough to minister to their necessities. There
was lint in abundance, but not enough persons to apply it, nor to give it
out. To make matters even worse, a sudden panic occurred. A detachment
of hussars escorting a convoy of prisoners was mistaken by some of the
peasants for Austrians and the report rapidly spread that the Austrian
Army was returning. Houses were barricaded, their inhabitants hiding in
cellars and garrets, and the French flags were burned. Others fled to
the fields, and still others hastily sought Austrian wounded upon whom
to lavish care. Down the streets and roads, blocked with vehicles of
all kinds carrying wounded, raced frightened horses, amidst a din of
curses and cries of fear and pain. Indescribable confusion prevailed;
the wounded were thrown from the wagons and some were trampled under
foot. Many of those in the temporary hospitals rushed out into the
streets, only to be knocked down and crushed, or to fall exhausted from
their weakness and fright. What agonies, what suffering, were undergone
during those terrible days of June 25th, 26th and 27th! Wounds infected
because of the heat, the dust and lack of care became insufferable.
Poisonous vapors filled the air. Convoys of wounded still poured in.
On the stone floors of the churches men of different nationalities lay
side by side; French, Austrians, Slavs, Italians, Arabs, covered the
pavement of the chapels, their oaths, curses and groans echoing through
the vaulted roofs of the sanctuaries. The air was rent with cries of
suffering—“We are abandoned, we are left to die in misery, and yet we
fought so bravely.” In spite of the sleepless nights and the fatigue they
had endured, they found no rest. In their distress they cried in vain
for help. Some struggled in the convulsions of lockjaw. There lay one,
his face black with the flies which infested the air, turning his eyes
to all sides for help, but no one responded. There lay another, shirt,
flesh and blood forming a compact mass that could not be detached. Here
a soldier entirely disfigured, his tongue protruding from a shattered
jaw, attracted M. Dunant’s pitying attention, and taking a sponge full
of water he squeezed it into the formless cavity representing the man’s
mouth. There, a miserable victim, whose nose, lips and chin had been
taken off by a sabre cut, unable to speak and half blind, made signs with
his hands, and M. Dunant brought him water and bathed his wounds gently.
A third, with cloven skull, expired in a pool of his own blood on the
floor of the church, a horrible spectacle, and those about him pushed
aside his body with their feet, as it obstructed the passage.

By Sunday morning, though every household had become a hospital, M.
Dunant succeeded in organizing a volunteer corps of women to aid the
hundreds of wounded in the churches and open squares who were without
assistance. Food and drink had to be brought them, as they were literally
dying of hunger and thirst; their wounds had to be dressed; their poor
bleeding bodies, covered with dust and vermin, washed, and all this in
a terrible heat, in a nauseating atmosphere, and amidst the cries and
lamentation of the suffering. In the largest church of Castiglione were
nearly five hundred soldiers and a hundred more lay on the pavement in
front of the church. In the churches the Lombard women—young and old—went
from one to another, carrying water and giving courage to the wounded.
From the fountains the boys brought great jugs of water. After the thirst
of the suffering men had been assuaged, bouillon and soup were provided.
Before any lint had been obtained the men’s underlinen had been torn into
bandages to bind their wounds. M. Dunant bought new linen and sent his
carriage to Brescia for other necessary supplies, for oranges, lemons
and sugar, for refreshing drinks. He secured some new recruits for his
volunteer band of mercy—an old naval officer, some English tourists, a
Swiss merchant and a Parisian journalist. Some of these soon found the
work more than they could endure and withdrew.

Pitiful are the stories M. Dunant tells of individual cases. Man after
man would cry out in despair, “Oh, do not let me die,” as they seized
the hands of their kind benefactor. “Oh, sir, please write to my father
to console my poor mother!” exclaimed a young corporal of only twenty.
M. Dunant took the address of his parents and in a few minutes the poor
boy was dead. He was an only son, and but for the letter M. Dunant sent
his parents they would never have learned his fate. An old sergeant,
decorated with many chevrons, repeated with great sadness and with
bitter conviction, “If I had only had care at first I should have
lived—and now I must die,” and death came to him at nightfall. “I will
not die! I will not die!” cried with almost fierce energy a grenadier
of the guards, who only three days before was well and strong and who
now, fatally wounded, struggled against this certain fate. M. Dunant
talked with him, and, listening, he became calm and consoled, and finally
resigned himself to death with the simplicity of a child.

On the steps of an altar, which were covered with straw, lay an African
Chasseur, wounded in the thigh, leg and shoulder. For three days he
had had nothing to eat. He was covered with dried mud and blood, his
clothing was in rags. After M. Dunant had bathed his wounds, given him
some bouillon and placed a blanket over him the poor fellow lifted his
benefactor’s hands to his lips with an expression of infinite gratitude.
At the entrance of the church was a Hungarian who kept crying aloud for
a doctor. His back and shoulders, lacerated by grape-shot, were one
quivering mass of raw flesh. The rest of his body was horribly swollen.
He could not lie down nor rest. Gangrene had set in and the end came
soon. Not far from him lay a dying zouave, crying bitterly. The fatigue,
the lack of food and rest, the horror of the suffering, the fear of dying
without any care developed among even the bravest soldiers a nervous
condition that reduced many to tears. Often when not overcome by pain the
dominant thought of the soldier was for his mother, and the fear of what
she would suffer when she learned of his death. Around the neck of one
of the dead men was found a locket containing the portrait of an elderly
woman, evidently his mother, which, with his left hand, he had pressed to
his heart.

On the pavement outside the church lay about one hundred French soldiers.
They were placed in two long rows between which one could pass. Their
wounds had been dressed and some soup given to them. They were calm,
following with their eyes M. Dunant as he moved among them. Some said
he was from Paris; others from South France. One asked if he were not
from Bordeaux. Each wished to claim him for their own province or city.
They called him “The Gentleman in White” because of the white clothes he
wore. The resignation of these poor soldiers was pathetic; they suffered
without complaint and died humbly and quietly.

On the other side of the church were wounded Austrian prisoners, fearing
to receive the care they defied. Some tore away their bandages, others
remained silent, sad and apparently without feeling, but most of them
were thankful for any kindness received and their faces expressed their
gratitude. In a remote corner one boy, not yet twenty, had received no
food for two days. He had lost an eye and was burning with fever. He had
hardly strength enough to speak or to drink a little soup. With good care
he improved, and later, when sent to Brescia, he was almost in despair at
being parted from the good women of Castiglione, whose hands he kissed
while begging them not to abandon him. Another prisoner, delirious with
fever, and also under twenty, lay with whitened hair from the horrors of
the battle and his sufferings.

The women of Castiglione, noticing that M. Dunant made no distinction
because of the nationality of the wounded, followed his example, caring
for all alike, repeating with compassion: “All are brothers.”

All honor to these good women and young girls of Castiglione, devoted
as they were modest. They never considered fatigue, nor disgust, nor
sacrifice; nothing daunted nor discouraged them in their work of mercy.




RULES FOR THE PREVENTION OF RAILROAD ACCIDENTS

(Upon the suggestion of a high official of one of the prominent railroads
of the country, a poster to be exhibited in railway passenger stations
has been prepared by the Red Cross. The poster is printed in two colors
(red and black) on white cardboard. A number of railways, in response to
a communication from the chairman of the Central Committee, have asked
for from 25 to 3,000 copies each. Over 19,000 of these posters have
already been asked for by railroads).


[Illustration]

The American Red Cross

    William H. Taft
    President

    Robt. W. de Forest
    Vice-President

    Chairman of Central Committee
    MAJ.-GEN. GEO. W. DAVIS
    U. S. Army

    CHARLES L. MAGEE
    Secretary

Rules for the Prevention of Railroad Accidents

_NEVER_ cross a railway at a grade crossing before making sure that no
trains are approaching.

_NEVER_ jump on or off cars in motion.

_NEVER_ stand on platforms of cars in motion.

_NEVER_ put head or other part of person out of car window.

_NEVER_ cross in front or rear of standing or moving train without first
making sure that there is no danger from some other train or cause.

_NEVER_ disobey the cautionary rules for safety posted at stations,
crossings, etc.

_NEVER_ forget that carelessness on your part in regard to these
precautions not only endangers your life, but the happiness and welfare
of those most dear to you.

“Prevention of accidents and injuries by all legitimate means is a
personal duty which everyone owes not to himself alone, but also to his
family.”

ISSUED JANUARY 1, 1909, BY THE AMERICAN RED CROSS




NOTES


CENTRAL COMMITTEE.

With the change in the administration there occurs a number of changes in
members of the Red Cross Central Committee who represent the Governmental
Departments. It is with the very greatest regret that the Red Cross loses
from that committee such men as James R. Garfield, of the Department
of the Interior, Robert Bacon, of the Department of State, Beekman
Winthrop, of the Treasury, Henry Hoyt, of the Department of Justice, and
Major-General O’Reilly, of the War Department. The service that these
members have given to the Red Cross cannot be too highly appreciated.
Besides the time and thought they have expended at committee meetings,
they have done much special work for the Society. Mr. Bacon, at the time
of the foreign relief rendered after many disasters in other lands,
Mr. Winthrop as National Treasurer, Mr. Hoyt as Counsellor and General
O’Reilly as Chairman of the War Relief Board, and to all of these members
of the Central Committee of the American Red Cross our people owe a debt
of gratitude for their unselfish assistance and deep interest in our
National Society.

The new members to be appointed by the President of the United States
we feel will soon take a like interest in this great international
institution. A sketch of the new members will be given in the July
BULLETIN.

The War Department has prepared the following form of certificate to be
issued by that Department to such members of the American Red Cross as
are accepted for the volunteer active personnel in time or war.

    _Field Service Form 58 R_

    _Series_ ____

    _No._ ____

    ____________ 19__

    _This Certificate is designed to identify
    ________________________ a member of ____________ branch of the
    American National Red Cross, who is attached to the sanitary
    service of the Army of the United States and who does not wear
    military uniform._

    _The bearer belongs to the personnel protected in virtue of
    Articles 9, 10 and 11, International Red Cross Convention
    and has fixed to the left arm a brassard with a red cross on
    a white ground, delivered and stamped by competent military
    authority. The number of said brassard is _____

                                        ____________________________
                                        _Medical Corps, U. S. Army._

    _Seal_

The Central Committee has accepted as an affiliated body the New York Red
Cross Hospital, of which affiliation a report will be made in a later
BULLETIN.

The Western Union and Postal Telegraph-Cable Companies granted the Red
Cross the free use of their wires and cables for all messages pertaining
to the Italian earthquake relief, and the Central Committee hereby
extends its thanks to these companies for this generous act, which has
saved to the relief fund a considerable amount of money.

The action of the South Carolina and Georgia Branches in returning
unexpended balances of their relief funds is most heartily to be
commended. Nothing will do more for our American Red Cross than such
illustrations of careful administration of the funds entrusted to it, and
the desire of the State Branches to turn back into the General Emergency
Fund of the National Red Cross all balances given for Emergency Relief
that such balances may be immediately available for future disasters. The
Central Committee desires to express its appreciation of this act and the
good work done by the South Carolina and Georgia Red Cross Branches.


CALIFORNIA.

Los Angeles organized a division of the State Branch on February 18,
1909. The following officers were elected: Dr. Rose Burcham, Chairman;
Rev. Robert J. Burdette, First Vice-Chairman; Joseph Scott, Second
Vice-Chairman; Mrs. Berthold Baruch, Third Vice-Chairman; Mrs. George H.
Kress, Secretary; Perry W. Weidner, Treasurer. Committee members will
be named by Dr. Burcham next week, when an earnest campaign to make the
organization a substantial one will be commenced.

Bishop Thomas J. Conaty and Rabbi S. Hecht were the leading speakers at
the organization meeting. In addition to the committees for routine work
several of special importance will be appointed by Dr. Burcham on the
enrollment of physicians, nurses and a first aid legion.


CANAL ZONE BRANCH.

On representation of Major Carroll A. Devol, Quartermaster’s Department,
now on duty at the Canal Zone, that in view of the bright prospects of
organizing a Red Cross branch on the isthmus, it would be desirable
to have Major Charles Lynch, Medical Corps, U. S. Army, sent there to
start the work, the latter officer was detailed for this duty by the War
Department on the request of the Central Committee of the Red Cross. He
sailed from New York on December 26, 1908, reaching Colon on January 2,
1909. Major Devol and Mr. A. B. Minear, General Secretary Young Men’s
Christian Association, Canal Zone, had already made arrangements for
lectures by Major Lynch. These were fixed as follows:

    Monday, January 4th, Tivol Hotel, Ancon.
    Tuesday, January 5th, Club House, Gorgona.
    Wednesday, January 6th, Club House, Culebra.
    Thursday, January 7th, Colon.

Major Devol and Major Lynch appeared at all these meetings, the former
explaining the special features of the Red Cross work on the Canal Zone,
and the latter discussing the achievements of the Red Cross generally,
with some special reference to first aid instruction. The various
lectures were well attended and a considerable amount of interest was
elicited in the Red Cross.

The Canal Zone Branch was organized on February 28th and on March 2d the
President, Major C. A. Devol, reported a membership of 1,020.


IOWA.

The Iowa branch of the American Red Cross has been organized in Des
Moines. J. B. Weaver, Jr., was elected President; W. W. Morrow, State
Treasurer, was named Treasurer, and Charles Hutchinson was chosen for
Secretary. An advisory board of seven influential men is made up as
follows: Harvey Ingham, D. S. Chamberlain, W. O. Finkbine, Gov. Warren
Garst, Lafayette Young, S. H. M. Byers and George F. Henry. All of these,
and others, became members of the Society by paying the membership fee of
$1.


MASSACHUSETTS BRANCH.

[Illustration]

As a means of raising funds for the Italian earthquake relief the
Massachusetts Branch, by authority of the Central Committee, issued a
special stamp, a cut of which is shown here. The report of Mr. Walter E.
Kruesi, the Stamp Secretary of the Branch, contains the following:

“I hope the Central Committee will make a note (in the BULLETIN) of the
‘Italian Red Cross stamps’ of Massachusetts, issued with the authority of
the National Office. I think this is due to the members of the Red Cross
as an explanation of the authority for the issue of these stamps. Between
$1,100 and $1,200 worth of these stamps have been sold to date (March
15th) and the funds are still being received. The expenses, as I have
stated before, were relatively heavy because we expected a much larger
sale and feel that we would have had it if other State Officers had been
urged in any measure to assist in the campaign. The receipts have been
very largely from people who said that they had been given no other
opportunity to subscribe.

“The Massachusetts funds were materially stimulated by the use of stamps
and by the advertisement the stamps gave to the general Massachusetts
relief fund. I send a cut of the stamp under separate cover, and think
many of your members would be glad to have a few as a souvenir. They can
also get the posters from us as souvenirs. These are very handsomely
executed and have been widely commented on because of their artistic
merit. The poster was painted by E. W. Kingsbury. We sell them at ten
cents each.”


SOUTH CAROLINA.

Mr. A. C. Kaufman, President of the South Carolina Branch, on January
18th wrote the National Secretary as follows:

“Treasurer Reeves will forward today a check for $333.21, balance from
the Southern Flood Sufferers’ Fund. This fund has been splendidly handled
by the Columbia and Marion Committees. The destitute have been largely
relieved by obtaining employment for the men, which did not seem possible
a month ago.”


BELGIUM.

LETTER TO PRESIDENT TAFT.

                                               Brussels, January 20, 1909.

Mr. President—The Executive Committee of the Belgian Red Cross, at its
meeting held on the 15th of December, 1908, decided by unanimous vote
to send a congratulatory address to Mr. W. H. Taft, President of the
American Red Cross, on the occasion of his election to the Presidency of
the United States.

The Belgians rejoice to see therein the sanction, by the vote of millions
of citizens, of their universally prevalent desire to have peace insured.
The international work of Geneva is a symbol of the union of nations,
and constitutes a most reliable guarantee of the maintenance of humane
principles throughout the world.

The choice of your high personality, whose generous sentiments are well
known, is for all a happy token of the great role which your country will
take in future in the domain of charity.

Again have the American people given to the world a beautiful example of
humane solidarity in preceding other nations in showing their generosity
to the populations afflicted by the Calabrian cataclysm.

Be pleased to accept, Mr. President, the expressions of our highest
consideration.

                                                          The President,
                                                          PRINCE DE LIGNE.

HON. WILLIAM H. TAFT. President of the American National Red Cross.


FRANCE.

As soon as the reports came of the disaster in Italy a meeting was held
of the Central Committee of the French Red Cross for the purpose of
considering what assistance it could render. Ninety Red Cross nurses were
promptly sent to the scene of the calamity.

Reports of what other Red Cross Societies have done for Italy will be
given after their bulletins and other publications have been received.


GERMAN RED CROSS.

On January 6th the German Red Cross dispatched for Southern Italy a
number of physicians, trained nurses and relief corps men with the
equipment of a field hospital. The party proceeded from Naples first to
Catania, where the Austrians were rendering efficient assistance and
where a number of Greek ships, flying the Red Cross flag, were acting as
hospital ships, so it continued directly on to Syracuse, and was there
put in charge of a hospital established in a large barracks. In the
same barracks the Red Cross of Brescia was in charge of a hospital and
another was under a Florentine personnel. By evening the many patients
had been moved from the military cots to the comfortable Red Cross beds.
An operation room was put in order and promptly utilized, for it had
not been possible for the physicians of this small town to care for the
hundreds of wounded who poured in upon them.


THE CONGO.

The Congoese African Red Cross, after twenty years of existence as a
separate society with headquarters in Brussels, has, upon the annexation
of the Congo by Belgium, given up its existence. Its hospitals at Banana
and Leopoldville and its sanitarium at Banana, with its remaining funds,
amounting to some seventeen thousand dollars, have been accepted by the
Belgian Government, which, in its turn, has agreed to maintain these
institutions with their personnel.


The Red Cross Needs Members

Will You Not Be One?

    Annual Membership,      $1.00
    Life Membership,       $25.00

For Address of Your State Branch, See 3rd Page of Cover

If There is No Branch in Your State, Send Your Application to the
National Secretary, Room 341, State, War and Navy Building, Washington,
D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Instantaneous

is the relief from the acute stinging pain of inflammations and
eczematous eruptions about the mucocutaneous margins when =Resinol
Ointment= is applied. And a permanent cure is effected by this remedy
with greater facility in all skin affections where a local application is
indicated than by any other method. As a dressing for Burns, Carbuncles,
etc., there is nothing approaches it.

=Resinol Soap= is the great adjunct to the Ointment, and renders the
necessary bathing of the parts an aid to the cure, where the ordinary
application of water and other soaps usually increases the trouble.

Resinol Ointment and Resinol Soap

Are Genuine Comforts to Physician and Patient Alike

_SEND FOR SAMPLES AND TRY THEM_

Resinol Chemical Company

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

GREAT BRITAIN BRANCH: 97 New Oxford Street, London, W. C.

CHAS. MARKELL & CO. Agents for Australasia, Sydney, N. S. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

A HEALTH RESORT

[Illustration: WASHINGTON SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST SANITARIUM. TAKOMA PARK,
D. C.

The first Sanitarium established by Seventh-Day Adventists was at Battle
Creek, in 1866. Since then institutions have been started in many places.
At present nearly sixty exist in various parts of the world.]

Washington is known as “The City Beautiful.” Much has been written of the
many beautiful and historic spots around Washington, but one which is a
revelation to all who visit it, is the new Washington Sanitarium, located
at Takoma Park, on an elevation of 300 feet. The Washington Sanitarium
has only been in operation a little over a year. It already has a
splendid patronage; it is undoubtedly destined to become well known not
only for its beauty and delightful surroundings, but as a health resort.
During the fall and winter the climate is almost ideal; the summer
climate is good—no mosquitoes or other pests are to be found.

A Branch Sanitarium is conducted at Nos. 1 and 2 Iowa Circle. The Branch
Sanitarium has recently been overhauled, and extensive alterations have
been made. The surroundings of this health-home are also attractive and
restful. Both institutions are thoroughly scientific, and employ the most
modern methods in the treatment of patients.

Massage, electricity in its various forms, baths of all descriptions, and
special dieting are the agencies chiefly depended upon.

For further information, address

                        The Washington Sanitarium
                      TAKOMA PARK, WASHINGTON, D. C.

Phone, Takoma 127 and 128

Branch Sanitarium Phone, North 1325

       *       *       *       *       *

Established January 1, 1843

Thos. Kent Manufacturing Co.

MANUFACTURERS OF

Woolen Goods, Blankets, Flannels, Uniform Cloths and Worsted Yarns

U. S. Standard Olive Drab Covert Cloths, Flannels and Serges a Specialty

SPECIAL BLANKETS

For Hospitals and Institutions

    UNION MILLS
    ROCKBOURNE MILLS
    RUNNYMEDE MILLS

Bell Telephone, 160 Lansdowne, Pa.

Clifton Heights, Pennsylvania

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: ALPHA PHOTO-ENGRAVING COMPANY.

Engravings for the Printer, Merchant & Manufacturer

N E Cor Howard and Fayette Streets BALTIMORE, MD.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Army and Navy Academy

WASHINGTON, D. C.

SPECIAL COACHING for the U. S. Military and Naval Service Examinations

Candidates are thoroughly prepared, both in class and by private
individual instruction, for the following examinations:

    WEST POINT, Military Academy, Entrance Examination.
    ANNAPOLIS, Naval Academy, Entrance Examination.
    U. S. ARMY, 2d Lieutenant, Entrance Examination.
    U. S. NAVY, Asst. Paymaster, Entrance Examination.
    U. S. MARINE CORPS, 2d Lieut., Entrance Examination.
    REVENUE CUTTER, Cadet, Entrance Examination.

Remarkable Success in all the Service Examinations.

For Particulars Address M. DOWD, Principal 1410 Harvard St.

       *       *       *       *       *

“WE PRINT ANYTHING”

KOHN & POLLOCK, Inc.

Complete Book, Catalog Railroad Printers

315-317 WEST GERMAN STREET

Baltimore, Maryland

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN SECURITY AND TRUST COMPANY

WASHINGTON, D. C.

COMPARATIVE STATEMENT FROM ORGANIZATION TO DATE

                                      CAPITAL
          DEPOSITS          Surplus and Undivided Profits         ASSETS
    Dec. 31, 1891—$  588,715         $1,320,238              $ 2,159,704
             1893—   809,261          1,462,097                2,905,658
             1895— 1,266,201          1,533,184                3,777,185
             1897— 2,627,182          1,587,455                5,149,138
             1899— 3,702,594          1,738,455                5,807,569
             1901— 3,943,832          1,838,108                6,012,165
             1903— 4,061,215          4,606,856                8,680,468
             1905— 5,555,065          4,709,706               10,311,840
             1907— 5,753,260          4,904,048               10,712,722

    Nov. 30, 1908—$7,450,174                          Assets $12,407,298

    Amount Paid to Customers in Interest                   $1,285,735.18
    Amount Added to Capital for Protection of Customers    $1,750,000.00
    Amount Added to Surplus for Protection of Customers    $1,967,124.47

From the foregoing it will be seen that the business of the Company
has steadily grown from year to year, and, while the shareholders
have received a fair return on the capital invested, the directors
have always borne in mind that their first duty was protection to the
depositors, which they have accomplished by adding over =four million
dollars=, making a guarantee fund to its clients, including shareholders’
liability, of =EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS=, a record shown by few banking
corporations in the United States.

This statement does not include our =Trust Department=, the securities of
which, under the law, are kept entirely separate and distinct from the
assets of the Company, and our relations being of a confidential nature,
no published statements are made. The growth has, however, been much
greater than the above.

Accounts Solicited

Interest Paid on all Deposits, Large or Small

       *       *       *       *       *

STATEMENT OF

The Commonwealth Title Insurance and Trust Company

PHILADELPHIA, PA.

AT THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS OCTOBER 31, 1908

    ASSETS

    Loans Secured by Collateral                     $2,023,470.08
    Bonds and Mortgages                                316,643.00
    Bonds                                            3,000,564.74
    Ground Rents                                        18,000.00
    Accrued Interest                                    46,185.86
    Real Estate, Furniture and Fixtures, including
      Safe Deposit Vaults                            1,358,679.90
    Miscellaneous                                       87,367.33
    Reserve—(Cash on hand, in Bank and Municipals)     937,865.33
                                                    -------------
          Total                                     $7,788,776.24

    LIABILITIES

    Capital Stock                                   $1,000,000.00
    Surplus                                          1,100,000.00
    Undivided Profits                                  155,631.99
    Miscellaneous                                        2,060.50
    Dividend payable November 10th                      60,000.00
    Deposits                                         5,471,083.75
                                                    -------------
        Total                                       $7,788,776.24

    Trust Funds—Invested                            $7,469,022.03
    Trust Funds—Uninvested                              57,635.91
                                                    -------------
        Total                                       $7,526,657.94

DIMNER BEEBER, President

JAMES V. ELLISON, Treasurer

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Safest Investments_

Are those that do not fluctuate during disturbed conditions of the
money or stock markets. First deed of trust notes (first mortgages),
well secured on real estate in the District of Columbia, constitute
“gilt-edge” investments. They do not depend upon the financial
responsibility of individuals or corporations for their stability,
and are exempt from taxation as personal property. We can supply such
investments in amounts from $500 upward. Send for booklet, “Concerning
Loans and Investments.”

_Swartzell, Rheem & Hensey Co._

727 15TH STREET N. W. WASHINGTON, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Huyler’s_

CHOCOLATES

BONBONS

FRESH

DELICIOUS

_Fancy Baskets, Boxes and Novelties filled with our Delicious Candies
make most acceptable gifts._

1119 F St. N.W. Washington, D.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Telephone, N 4372

Great Bear Spring Water

Fifty Cents per Case of 6 glass-stoppered bottles

New Warehouse and Office

322 R Street Northeast

Washington, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATIONAL ENGRAVING CO.

Designers, Halftone, Line and Color Engravers

Phone, Main 1679

Office, 506-508 Fourteenth Street, Cor. Pennsylvania Ave. Washington,
D.C., U. S. A.

QUALITY DISPATCH

       *       *       *       *       *

SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST COMPANY OF BALTIMORE

CHARTERED EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOUR

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

NATIONAL HOTEL

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Pennsylvania Avenue and Sixth Street

THE NATIONAL HOTEL, situated about midway on the famous Pennsylvania
Avenue between the Capitol and the White House, is one of the largest and
most centrally located houses in Washington. The principal street-car
lines of the Capital pass the door, thus giving quick and easy access
to all public buildings and points of interest. This house has just
been thoroughly overhauled and modernized throughout. Steam heat,
electric light and telephone in every room; new cafe and other modern
improvements, rendering it one of the most comfortable hotels in the
Capital city.

SCHEDULE OF RATES:

AMERICAN PLAN—$2.50 and $3.00 per day each person. For rooms with private
bath attached, $4.00 per day; two persons in room with bath, $7.00 per
day.

EUROPEAN PLAN—Rooms, $1.00, $1.50 and $2.00 per day; Rooms with bath
attached, $2.50 for one person and $4.00 per day for two persons.

C. F. SCHUTT, Manager

       *       *       *       *       *

KNEESSI’S SONS

MANUFACTURERS OF TRUNKS, SUIT CASES TRAVELING BAGS LEATHER NOVELTIES

425 SEVENTH STREET N. W.

PHONE, M 2000

SPECIAL TRUNK FOR NURSES AND MEDICAL PURPOSES

       *       *       *       *       *

Professional Nursing

A Powder

Very inexpensive, which, when dissolved in water, makes a pleasant,
non-irritating, non-poisonous lotion, not staining the linen, and which
has a Specific Action against those peculiar pathogenic germs which
Infest the Genito-Urinary organs (Male as well as Female); hence is a

VALUABLE REMEDY FOR ALL CONDITIONS REQUIRING ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT

If intelligently used, according to directions, it will relieve all
cases, including the acute cases and the stubborn chronic ones as well.

Also very effective in Pruritus of the genital regions.

Its use is most agreeable to the patient, affording quick relief and
proceeding steadily to a cure.

The formula, together with bacteriological and clinical potency of the
preparation, is furnished the medical profession.

A two-ounce box of TYREE’S ANTISEPTIC POWDER (enough to make two gallons
of antiseptic lotion) will be sent Free. This would make about seven
dollars’ worth of the usual bottled antiseptic solutions. This is all
pure capital—you pay for no water. You can take it with you—no liquids to
carry.

J. S. TYREE, Chemist

Washington, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Woodward & Lothrop

New York—Washington—Paris

       *       *       *       *       *

Columbia Theatre

The Leading Theatre of Washington, D. C.

COLUMBIA THEATRE CO., Proprietors

FRAME METZEROTT, PRESIDENT

OLIVER METZEROTT, TREASURER

FRED. G. BERGER, MANAGER

Washington, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hotel Rudolph

ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.

_American and European_

JOEL HILLMAN, Proprietor

       *       *       *       *       *

Bailey, Banks & Biddle Co.

Designers and Makers of the

OFFICIAL INSIGNIA

for the American National Red Cross for National and State Officers

[Illustration]

    14-K. Gold and Enamel,  $10
    Silver, Gilt and Enamel, $5

Issued upon receipt of permit, which can be obtained from Secretary
Charles L. Magee, War Department, Washington, D. C.

1218-20-22 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Penna.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ABDOMINAL SUPPORTER IN HARMONY WITH MODERN SURGERY

The “Storm” Binder and Abdominal Supporter

PATENTED

IS ADAPTED TO USE OF MEN, WOMEN, CHILDREN AND BABIES

    No Whalebones
    No Rubber Elastic
    Washable as Underwear
    Light
    Flexible
    Durable
    Comfortable

_The invention which took the prize offered by the Managers of the
Woman’s Hospital of Philadelphia._

The “Storm” Binder may be used as a SPECIAL support in cases of prolapsed
kidney, stomach, colon and in ventral and umbilical hernia; as a GENERAL
support in obesity and general relaxation; as a POST-OPERATIVE Binder
after operation upon the kidney, stomach, bladder, appendix and pelvic
organs, and after plastic operations and in conditions of irritable
bladder to support the weight of the viscera.

[Illustration: WOMAN’S BELT—Front View]

[Illustration: MAN’S BELT—Front View]

Illustrated folder, giving styles, prices and diagram for measuring,
and partial list of physicians using “Storm” Binder sent on request. A
comfort to athletes, especially horseback riders. Of marked value in the
prevention and relief of intestinal disorders.

Mail Orders Filled Within 24 Hours on Receipt of Price

KATHERINE L. STORM, M. D.

1612 DIAMOND STREET, PHILADELPHIA

       *       *       *       *       *

_EBBITT HOUSE_

AMERICAN PLAN

WASHINGTON, D. C.

_ARMY AND NAVY HEADQUARTERS_

_H. C. BURCH_

PROPRIETOR

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTHUR P. GREELEY

Attorney and Counsellor in Patent and Trademark Causes

Washington Loan and Trust Building

WASHINGTON, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

R. Pluym

_Ladies’ Tailor Habit Maker._

1216 14TH STREET

PHONE, N. 6289

WASHINGTON, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Residence, 2018 First St. N.W.

Tel., North 5749

ALEX. MILLER

CARPENTER AND BUILDER

2215 OHIO AVENUE N. W. WASHINGTON, D. C.

TEL., MAIN 1281

       *       *       *       *       *

(_Send for Nurses’ Catalog N_)

[Illustration]

APPAREL FOR NURSES

[Illustration]

_Ready to Wear and Made to Order_

    UNIFORMS
    APRONS
    CAPS
    GOWNS
    COATS
    BONNETS
    COLLARS
    CUFFS

    All Prices
    All Styles
    Best Value
    Excellent Cut
    Excellent Work
    Superior Quality

FOR MAIDS

CORRECT UNIFORMS

_for_

    _Cooks_
    _Chambermaids_
    _Housemaids_
    _Waitresses_
    _Etc._, _Etc._

FOR DOCTORS

HOSPITAL GARMENTS

_for_

    _Doctors_
    _Nurses_
    _Orderlys_
    _Contagions_
    _Etc._, _Etc._

[Illustration: (_Send for Maids’ Cat. M_)]

[Illustration: (_Send for Drs.’ Cat. H_)]

Nurses’ Outfitting Association

52 West 39th Street, New York

“Home Bureau” House Near Fifth Avenue

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO.

Nine Stores and Market Stands

WASHINGTON, D. C.

325 STORES IN THE UNITED STATES 325

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE ALLEN, Inc.

IMPORTER OF

Trimmed Hats, Bonnets, Ribbons, Silks, Velvets, Millinery and Straw Goods

1214 CHESTNUT ST., PHILA., PA.

RUE BLEUE 3, PARIS

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: BELASCO THEATRE, WASHINGTON, D. C.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Shoreham

WASHINGTON, D. C.

American and European Plan

Absolutely Fireproof

Located in the most fashionable part of the city and within five minutes’
walk of the

EXECUTIVE MANSION, TREASURY, STATE, WAR AND NAVY DEPARTMENTS

John T. Devine, Proprietor

       *       *       *       *       *

_CUMBERLAND STEEL COMPANY_

TURNED AND GROUND HIGHLY POLISHED SHAFTING

CUMBERLAND, MD. U.S.A.

Not only perfectly straight, but round, true to size and highly polished

SEND FOR RED PRICE LIST N

       *       *       *       *       *

_What Shall the Patient Eat?_

[Illustration]

PRACTICAL DIETETICS

solves the question. It contains diet lists and what to avoid in the
various diseases, as advised by leading hospitals and physicians in New
York, Boston and Philadelphia. It also gives in detail the way to prepare
the different foods. Also appropriate diet for the different stages of
infancy. A book of great value for the physician, nurse and household.

Pattee’s “Practical Dietetics”

Has been recommended by

Governments—United States and Canada (Adopted for use by the Medical
Department and placed in every Army Post).

Medical Colleges and Hospitals, Training Schools—(Adopted as a text-book
in the leading schools of United States and Canada).

State Board of Examiners of Nurses—(New York, Maryland, Virginia,
Connecticut, Minnesota, Indiana, North Carolina (included in their
Syllabus)).

Public Schools—Boston and New York (Added to their authorized text-book
list).

Fifth Edition just out. 12mo. 320 Pages Price, $1.00 net. By Mail, $1.10.
C. O. D., $1.25.

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher and Bookseller

Mount Vernon, N. Y.

New York Office, 52 West Thirty-Ninth Street

       *       *       *       *       *

PATENT SENSE and Patents that PROTECT

yield our clients enormous profits. Write us for PROOF. Inventors lose
MILLIONS through WORTHLESS patents

R. S. & A. B. LACEY

DEPT. 55 Washington, D. C.

ESTAB. 1869

       *       *       *       *       *

The Inventor’s Universal Educator

Tells all about Patents, how to secure them. Has 600 Mechanical
Movements, also 50 Perpetual Motions

Every inventor should have a copy. Price. $1.00 by mail

ADDRESS

FRED. O. DIETRICK, Ouray Building, Washington, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUDLEY, BROWNE & PHELPS

Attorneys at Law and Solicitors of Patents

Patent and Trade-Mark Causes

PACIFIC BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Patents

ALEXANDER & DOWELL

Attorneys at Law

918 F Street, Washington, D. C.

(Established 1857)

Procure Patents and Trade-Marks; render Expert Opinions on Patentability
of Inventions; Validity and Infringement of Patents. Practice in all
Federal Courts. Will send Book 9 of Information on request.

       *       *       *       *       *

Becker’s Leather Goods Co. (INCORPORATED)

    Trunks, Traveling Requisites
    Leather Novelties
    Wedding and Holiday Gifts

1324-1326 F STREET NORTHWEST Washington, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAL HEPATICA

For preparing an

EFFERVESCING ARTIFICIAL MINERAL WATER

Superior to the Natural,

Containing the Tonic, Alterative and Laxative Salts of the most
celebrated Bitter Waters of Europe, fortified by the addition of Lithia
and Sodium Phosphate.

BRISTOL-MYERS CO.

277-279 Greene Avenue, BROOKLYN-NEW YORK.

[Illustration: Write for free sample.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE EVOLUTION OF THE TAFT SMILE.

Copyright, HARRIS-EWING, ’08.]

       *       *       *       *       *

VICTORY CHEMICAL CO.

Manufacturers of Quick Death

INSECTICIDE AND DISINFECTANT

312 N. Fifteenth St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Mail Orders Solicited

Phone, Spruce 3605

       *       *       *       *       *

J. E. CALDWELL & CO.

Jewelers and Silversmiths

IMPORTERS OF High-Grade Watches and Clocks

DESIGNERS AND MAKERS OF Loving Cups and Other Presentation Pieces

Among which we mention the Silver Services for the U. S. S. Pennsylvania,
Kentucky, Iowa, Mobile and Mississippi

Makers of the Insignia for Buffalo Homœopathic Hospital, U. of Pa.
Hospital, Atlantic City Hospital, Wilkes-Barre Hospital, etc.

CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED

902 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

       *       *       *       *       *

“The Velvet Kind”

PURE ICE CREAM

Washington, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAPER

FURNISHED BY

_F. N. McDonald & Co._

BALTIMORE

       *       *       *       *       *

Government Positions

=46,712 Appointments= were made to Civil Service places during the past
year. Excellent opportunities for young people. Each year we instruct
by mail thousands of persons who pass these examinations and a large
share of them receive appointments to life positions at $840 to $1,100
a year. If you desire a position of this kind, write for our Civil
Service Announcement, containing full information about all government
examinations and questions recently used by the Civil Service Commission.

COLUMBIAN CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, WASHINGTON, D. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

American Red Cross Membership

Any man, woman or child who desires to become a member of the American
Red Cross may do so by filling in one of the application blanks at the
bottom of this page, and forwarding it, with the dues, to THE AMERICAN
RED CROSS, WASHINGTON, D. C. Checks or money orders should be made
payable to THE AMERICAN RED CROSS.

The membership fee of $1.00 includes subscription to the quarterly Red
Cross BULLETIN.

Life membership fee is $25.00.

                     Application for Membership

    _American Red Cross, Washington, D. C._          _Date_ ____

    _I hereby signify my desire to become a member of the American
    Red Cross. One dollar for membership dues and subscription to
    the BULLETIN is enclosed herewith._

    _Name_ _________________________________

    _Address_ ______________________________

                     Application for Membership

    _American Red Cross, Washington, D. C._          _Date_ ____

    _I hereby signify my desire to become a member of the American
    Red Cross. One dollar for membership dues and subscription to
    the BULLETIN is enclosed herewith._

    _Name_ _________________________________

    _Address_ ______________________________

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Buholz Artificial Limb Co.

1325 Arch Street Philadelphia, Pa.

These Limbs are made of compressed leather

The Limb you will eventually buy if you want comfort and satisfaction

       *       *       *       *       *

_Huyler’s_

CHOCOLATES

BONBONS

FRESH

DELICIOUS

_Fancy Baskets, Boxes and Novelties filled with our Delicious Candies make
most acceptable gifts._

18-20 E. Baltimore St. BALTIMORE MARYLAND

       *       *       *       *       *

AFTON HOUSE

1123-25 13th Street (Cor. Massachusetts Avenue)

A Select Boarding Place, Centrally Located in One of the Most Beautiful
Parts of the City—Excellent Table—Convenient to All Car Lines.

Phone, North 3136

Rates, $1.50 to $2.00 Daily

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Founded 1824 by Jacob Reed

Incorporated 1905 by Allan H. Reed

Jacob Reed’s Sons

Men’s and Boys’ Wear, Clothing, Furnishings, Hats, Custom and Uniform
Clothing

Automobile Apparel, Liveries

1424-1426 Chestnut Street Philadelphia

       *       *       *       *       *

J. B. WEBSTER

Dealer in General Merchandise Railroad Ties and Cord Wood

LORTON, VA.

       *       *       *       *       *

GUM GLUTEN FLOUR

GUARANTEED UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, JUNE 30TH 1906. SERIAL No. 5715
FOR SALE BY ONE LEADING GROCER IN EACH CITY—WRITE FOR HIS NAME AND BOOK
OF RECIPES—MENTION PUBLICATION

THE PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 90 WEST BROADWAY, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

“AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS TEXT-BOOK

ON

First-Aid and Relief Columns”

=By MAJOR CHARLES LYNCH=

_of the Medical Corps, United States Army_

Being a Manual of Instruction for the Prevention of Accidents and What to
do for Injuries and Emergencies

PREPARED FOR AND INDORSED BY THE AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS

WITH A PREFACE BY

=BRIGADIER-GENERAL R. M. O’REILLY=

_Surgeon-General, United States Army_

ILLUSTRATED WITH 74 ENGRAVINGS

POCKET SIZE, viii+244 PAGES.

The Red Cross is in each country an organization recognized by the
respective Governments for the purpose of rendering aid to the medical
services or armies in time of war, and, furthermore, to mitigate the
suffering caused by great calamities, and to devise and carry on means
for preventing the same. It has, therefore, an important educational duty
to perform.

For the purpose of further fulfilling this duty the American National Red
Cross has issued the FIRST-AID AND RELIEF COLUMNS TEXT-BOOK for use in
schools, colleges, Y. M. C. A’s., in the family, and for service in the
training of nurses and Red Cross Relief Columns. Major Charles Lynch, of
the Medical Corps of the United States Army, was especially requested by
the Red Cross to prepare this text-book.

The author is a surgeon in the Army Medical Service, and has been
especially detailed by the War Department to act as the medium between
that Department and the National Red Cross. His duties are to study
and suggest in what way the services of the Society can be made the
most available. Major Lynch was the United States Medical Attachè to
the Japanese Army during the Russian-Japanese War, and while there had
special opportunities for observing the improvised materials used by them
in case of need, and their manner of rendering first aid, which proved of
such value in the preserving of life during that war. He has been engaged
in organizing First-Aid and Relief Columns, lecturing before various
branches of the Y. M. C. A., and otherwise devoting much time to this
special subject. He has, therefore, a large experience of the necessities
and practical value of such work and of the wants of those seeking
instruction.

Beginning with the Anatomy and Physiology, the book succinctly deals
with Germs or Micro-organisms, First-aid Materials, General Directions
for Rendering First-aid, Shock, Common Accidents and Injuries, Common
Emergencies, Occupation Accidents and Injuries, Injuries and Emergencies
of Indoor and Outdoor Sports, Transportation of Wounded and Sick,
Organizations for First-aid Instruction, First-aid Contests, closing with
a list of References and a very complete Index.

The preface by Surgeon-General O’Reilly gives not only due recognition
to the practical worth of the book, but points out the vast good which
may be done by proper organizations and knowledge in times of great
calamities. He emphasizes the fact that, so far as he knows, it is the
first effort to teach the prevention of accidents.

=For sale by The American National Red Cross, Washington, D. C. Price,
$1.00 per copy.=

       *       *       *       *       *

_In answering advertisements please mention THE AMERICAN RED CROSS
BULLETIN._




ADDRESS OF STATE BRANCHES.

[Illustration: NOTE.—CROSSES INDICATE STATES AND POSSESSIONS IN WHICH
BRANCH SOCIETIES HAVE BEEN ORGANIZED.]


CALIFORNIA: Mrs. Thurlow McMullin, Secretary, 2200 California Street, San
Francisco, Cal.

CANAL ZONE: Miss J. Macklin Beattie, Secretary, Ancon, Canal Zone.

COLORADO: Mr. L. L. Aitken, Secretary, Colorado Springs, Colo.

CONNECTICUT: Mrs. Sara T. Kinney, Secretary, P. O. Box 68, Hartford, Conn.

DELAWARE: Miss Emily P. Bissell, Secretary, 1404 Franklin Street,
Wilmington, Del.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Mr. W. A. Slater, Secretary, 1731 I Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

GEORGIA: Mr. Allan Sweat, Treasurer, Savannah, Ga.

HAWAII: Mrs. W. W. Hall, Secretary, Honolulu, Hawaii.

ILLINOIS: Mr. Chas. H. Ravell, Secretary, 135 Adams Street Chicago, Ill.

INDIANA: Mr. Rowland Evans, Secretary, Indianapolis, Ind.

IOWA: Mr. Charles Hutchinson, Secretary, 916 Fleming Building, Des
Moines, Iowa.

KANSAS: Mrs. B. B. Smyth, Secretary, Room 8, 4th floor, State House,
Topeka, Kan.

MAINE: Capt. F. J. Morrow, U. S. A., 478½ Congress Street, Portland, Me.

MARYLAND: Mr. George Norbury Mackenzie, Secretary, 1243 Calvert Building,
Baltimore, Md.

MASSACHUSETTS: Miss Katharine P. Loring, Secretary, Prides Crossing, Mass.

MICHIGAN: Mr. Ralph M. Dyar, Secretary, 818 Penobscot Building, Detroit,
Mich.

MINNESOTA: Mr. Edward C. Stringer, Secretary, St. Paul, Minn.

MISSOURI: Mr. Leighton Shields, Secretary, 1200 Third National Bank
Building, St Louis, Mo.

NEW HAMPSHIRE: Address of Branch, Mr. Wm. F. Thayer, First National Bank,
Concord, N. H.

NEW JERSEY: Mr. W. E. Speakman, Secretary, Woodbury, N. J.

NEW YORK: Mrs. William K. Draper, Secretary, 500 Fifth Avenue, New York
City.

NORTH CAROLINA: Mrs. Theodore F. Davidson, Secretary, Asheville, N. C.

OHIO: Mr. R. Grosvenor Hutchins, Secretary, Columbus, O.

OKLAHOMA: Dr. Fred. S. Clinton, Secretary, Tulsa, Okla.

PENNSYLVANIA: Mr. Joseph Allison Steinmetz, Secretary, Independence Hall
Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS: Mrs. Victorino Mapa, Secretary, Manila, P. I.

PORTO RICO: Miss Josefina Noble, Secretary, No. 9 Tetuan Street, San
Juan, P. R.

RHODE ISLAND: Professor George Grafton Wilson, Secretary, care Brown
University, Providence, R. I.

SOUTH CAROLINA: Mr. A. W. Litschgi, Secretary, 187 King Street,
Charleston, S. C.

TEXAS: Mr. Raymond D. Allen, Secretary, 483 Bryan Street, Dallas, Texas.

VERMONT: Mr. Chas. S. Forbes, Secretary, St. Albans, Vt.

WASHINGTON: Rev. M. A. Matthews, Seattle, Wash.

WEST VIRGINIA: Miss Elizabeth Van Rensselaer, Secretary, Berkeley
Springs, W. Va.

WYOMING: Mr. Chas. F. Mallin, Secretary, Cheyenne, Wyo.




CHINOSOL

(Pronounced Kinnosol)


THE ONLY NON-POISONOUS, NON-IRRITATING, NON-ALCOHOLIC ANTISEPTIC

WHICH IS “MUCH STRONGER THAN CARBOLIC ACID AND AT LEAST THE EQUAL OF
BICHLORIDE OF MERCURY.”

(EXTRACT FROM BACTERIOLOGICAL REPORT FROM THE LEDERLE LABORATORIES.)

A THOROUGHLY RELIABLE DISINFECTANT SAFE EVEN IN THE HANDS OF CHILDREN.

There is no longer any excuse for running the risk of poisoning by
carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate.

PARTIAL LIST OF AUTHORITIES.

    Imperial Board of Health of Germany.
    Royal Scientific Commission for Therapeutics of Prussia.
    Hygienic Institute of the University of Munich.
    Royal University Clinics, Halle a. S.
    Dr. Vogelius, Bacteriologist Laboratory University, Copenhagen.

In use in hospitals throughout all Europe.

CHINOSOL

DOES NOT INJURE MEMBRANES. FREE FROM DISAGREEABLE ODOR.

Every physician approves of the prompt application of a proper antiseptic
to a bruise, cut, wound or burn, thus insuring surgical cleanliness until
he can reach the patient.

CHINOSOL IS PRESENTED IN TABLET FORM. ONE TABLET TO ONE QUART OF WATER
PRODUCES SOLUTION OF PROPER STRENGTH.

WE ARE INTRODUCING CHINOSOL THROUGH THE DRUG TRADE OF AMERICA.

IF YOU CANNOT OBTAIN IT, REMIT TO US, IN POSTAGE, AND WE WILL SEND YOU
SUFFICIENT CHINOSOL TO MAKE

3 QUARTS FOR 10 CENTS.

Guaranteed by us to comply with National and State Pure Drug Laws—No.
2335. CHINOSOL CO.—PARMELE PHARMACAL CO., SELLING AGENT, 54 SOUTH ST., N.
Y.
